Umpha Manenzhe
Police in Polokwane are gearing up for the festive season, with various operations in place.
Station Commander, Brig Gift Makhubele mapped out the plans as the busiest time of the year approaches.
He mentioned that the operations would not mean anything without the assistance of the community, which he said serve as the eyes and ears of the police.
A multi-disciplinary team has been assembled and consists of the municipality’s community safety and traffic departments, Department of Home Affairs, Community Policing Forums (CPF) and members in blue.
He says the operations are targeting robberies in the city, undocumented foreigners and enforcing municipal by-laws.
Safer City Operations
The environmental design of the city takes priority in this operation where the police work hand-in-hand to combat crime in areas identified as crime hotspots.
Makhubele says this includes streets where the lights are not working, areas that are bushy and areas where there is an influx of people at odd hours.
“This operation means the police survey areas where the municipality must repair street lights or cut grass as this contributes to crime. It is important that street lights are functional in every part of the city and where criminals are known to hide in the bushes when they commit crimes”.
He says they have also ensured that the police patrol areas around gyms and the stadium during the early hours of the morning and evenings when people are jogging. This operation is aimed at ensuring that the city is safe for all who reside in it.
Blue light patrol Operation Wafa-Wafa
This operation is aimed at increasing the visibility of law enforcement agencies around the city and includes the municipality’s community safety and traffic officials along with the police. Makhubele says they identify problematic areas in the city which they patrol in the evenings on a daily basis. “If you see a convoy of blue light vehicles, know that we are patrolling the area. These patrols usually take place in residential areas such as Bendor where there is a prevalence of housebreakings. “We go out at 18:00 and patrol, then meet up later in the evening at the station and rotate the patrols.”
Community Policing Forum Operations
The police rely on the community to be hands-on and their weekly meetings with the CPF are able to identify problematic areas in the city.
The CPF assist the police in highlighting areas where the CPF are alerted of crimes by the community. Makhubele says it is important to mention that the relationship between the police and the CPF has yielded many arrests and they are appreciative of it.
Makhubele mentions that he is personally out on these operations as he believes in being a hands-on station commander.
He says these operations will take place all through the festive season and beyond.