Capricorn District Municipality (CDM) hosted learners from three schools in the district at a workshop last Tuesday to celebrate International Day for Disaster Reduction (IDDR) and International World Space Week.
Attendees of the workshop included teachers and Gr 9 and 11 learners from Malusi, Malebogo and Sefoloko High Schools. Addressing delegates, CDM Mayor, John Mpe said the purpose of the event was to identify advocacy opportunities and highlight how well disaster risk governance, planning and implementation leads to reduced numbers of people affected by disasters, especially in terms of deaths, injuries, displacement and loss of livelihoods.
“This year’s commemoration takes place at a time when we are also celebrating World Space Week, which celebrates the contribution of space science and technology to the betterment of humanity. We therefore commend the South African National Space Agency for partnering with us to celebrate this, particularly with learners, with the hope that it will ignite their interest in space science and satellites,” Mpe said.
According to Mpe, disasters have a huge impact on human infrastructure and lives. “They can result from natural causes such as floods, fire and conflicts. It is for this reason that it is important to empower each other about the ways to strengthen our disaster risk reduction interventions and build community resilience,” Mpe said and explained that the occasion was part of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction Campaign for 2016-2022 Sendai campaign which has seven targets over seven years and this year’s target is to substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies.
“This Sendai campaign aims to promote awareness and it is an opportunity for all stakeholders to integrate resources and have a set of responses to reduce disaster risk and disaster losses. Our position is clear; we are committed to reducing the economic effects of disasters,” Mpe concluded.
Story: Barry Viljoen