Event organisers can be fined for failing to ensure that guests comply with Covid-19 regulations.
This stern warning was issued by Limpopo Economic Development, Environment and Tourism (Ledet) Spokesperson, Zaid Kalla who emphasised the importantance of adherence to Covid-19 regulations, saying it is an individual responsibility and that contravention of the regulations is considered a criminal offence.
He says event organisers are expected to comply with regulations and ensure that all guests are reminded to comply while at the event venue and any individual who fails to keep social distancing, wear a mask or sanitise will be in contravention of the pandemic’s regulations.
Kalla says as a department they encourage organisers to ensure that those who fail to comply with regulations are denied participation at any organised event as such people are a danger to both themselves and the masses.
“Organisers and promoters must ensure that all invitations, posters and adverts on all public events to be hosted should clearly state that Covid-19 compliance is compulsory by all attendees. Organisers must encourage a safe 1,5 metre distance between people at all gatherings and design the event ground in such a way that each ticket holder has his own safe sitting and dancing space.”
Kalla says in efforts to promote tourism within the province, the department strongly believes that entertainment facilities as well as artists play a vital role in rebuilding the province’s tourism sector as well as boosting the local economy.
“We would hate to reach a stage where liquid-tourism as well as all other forms of entertainment are suspended within the province due to non-compliance by organisers and attendees.”
He said this type of ignorance might see Limpopo residents celebrating both Christmas and New Year confined to their backyards.
“We plead with our artists and organisers to encourage social distancing and wearing of masks at all events. If need be we support that both artists and DJs should stop the entertainment procedures should their fans be seen to be adopting hooliganism or non-compliance with safety regulations.” All events requirements include a maximum number of 250 people indoors and 500 outdoors, 1,5 metres distancing and wearing of masks at all times.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe