Leader of the DA Caucus and Ward Councillor, Frank Haas expressed his concern and was vehemently against the development of an eco-development comprising 300 to 500 ha within the Polokwane Game Reserve.
The issue was again discussed last Thursday during the last Council meeting of the year when the Polokwane Municipality tabled before Council a proposal whereby several pieces of land were to be made available for long-term lease purposes. The proposal included the development of an eco-development within the game reserve, which had been touched upon during a council meeting last year.
Haas said the game reserve was there for all residents, rich and poor, and he could not agree with a development which would just be for the well-to-do. “This is going to lead to a legal fight, and I will lead the fight against the municipality,” he said.
The land would be used productively to grow the city’s economy, was argued. Many of theses pieces of land destined to be leased out on long-term leases are currently used illegally, council heard.
Site visits were done and recommendations as to which pieces of land should be leased out and for what purposes, were based on the site visits done.
Proposed pieces of land had been valued already and earmarked for business, housing, an arts and culture hub, industrial parks, special economic zones and mixed – use developments, including the proposed eco-development within the current game reserve.
A proposed truck inn on erven 6451/1 and erf 6451/re next to ext 17 was among the developments proposed.
Legal and binding contracts would force lessees to start with development within three years of concluding the lease agreement and land may not be used for other purposes except for what was the original intention. The developments would create jobs, industrialisation, infrastructure development and a sustainable and viable city, according to the municipality.
Environmental impact assessments would first be done on land currently zoned as public open spaces, such as the game reserve, and only then a decision would be taken, Polokwane Mayor, Thembi Nkadimeng assured Haas and the council.
Haas, however, remained adamant in his opposition, saying that development could take place around the game reserve, but he would not condone or vote for such development within the reserve.
Story: Nelie Erasmus