Louise Page (78), a well-known name in the Polokwane school community, passed away in her sleep on Wednesday, 28 October. She leaves behind three sons, 13 grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Her friend and colleague, PEMPS Gr R Head, Karin Adlem, describes Louis as an incredible woman.
“I was fortunate to have her in my life, in front of me, besides me, and behind me, for 17 years. In front of me as my mentor, next to me as my friend, and behind me as my protector, she always had my back,” Adlem said. This mother of three and her husband, Allen, moved to Polokwane in 1967.
Her son, Mark, says she started working at the Catholic Church at the Brother of Charity College as the principal’s secretary. “The college closed after she worked there for four years and she then decided to dipped her toes into the retail world for three years. She joined General Piet Joubert as the principal’s secretary and after 26 years, it was time for her to retire,” he explained.
Retirement wasn’t for Louise and she joined the PEMPS family as the friendly voice of PEMPS Gr R when it opened its doors in 2000. It was here where her name became synonymous with the establishment.
“She was the perfect secretary. She would arrive before me and have my coffee ready when I arrive. She was old-school and believed everything had to be locked up and put away before she leaves. She was very precise and things were either wrong or right. She was a true legend,” Adlem says.
Mark describes his mom as not only hardworking, but a workaholic. “She was going to retire next year as it would have earmarked 50 years in the school community. My dad passed away in 2017 and it was hard on my mom, she lost her soulmate and best friend, they were married for 54 years. Otherwise, she was healthy, with a love and passion for God and the church. She was stubborn and the most non-judgmental person I know. We will remember her for her loyalty and devotion to her family. She enjoyed peace and quiet and loved children, she lived for her great-grandchild, Zachary.”
Since Louise’s husband, Allan was also part of the school community, she planted a Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow shrub (Brunfelsia pauciflora) in the garden at PEMPS.
“Louise would always sit here and talk to Allen, and remember him. We will now also plant the same tree next to Allen’s tree to remember her. We will also have a memorial service at the school on Thursday. Louise was a legend and her legacy will live on in this school forever. I thank God today for granting me the favour of having her in my life,” Adlem added.
All Covid-19 protocol will be observed at Louis’ memorial service and those in attendance are expected to wear masks. A registry will also be filled out and the service is expected to start at 14:00.
“My mom was a vibrant woman, and black clothing is not a requirement. We want to celebrate her life,” Mark said.
Story: Maretha Swanepoel