After the first quarter of the financial year, 75% of budgeted overtime for Polokwane Municipal workers has been spent. The overtime report was tabled during the last Council meeting for 2020 last Thursday for approval.
By the end of September the public safety directorate has spent 122% of their budgeted amount for overtime, while water and sanitation spent 87%, emergency services 80% and energy 48% of their budgets.
The budget and treasury directorate as well as the community services directorate have spent 45% of their overtime budgets.
The rest spent 30% and less of their budgets, with the human settlements and, planning and economic development directorates having spent no overtime money.
The Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC) has, in the same meeting, asked that internal audit and risk management, investigate all overtime expenditure paid for the 2019/20 financial year, to give assurance that overtime expenditure has been in compliance with the overtime policy and that there has been proper monitoring of claimed overtime, and report back to Council no later than 31 January 2021.
Questions were raised about the control of overtime, and certain directorates not doing their jobs during office hours, but after hours respond to calls already received by 10:00 in the morning.
Each of the directorates that spent more than 25% above the acceptable norm, in a report to Council for its condoning of the overtime expenditure, cited extra work during the nationwide lockdown, or working on a skeleton staff that led to more overtime to complete work as reasons why.
Water and sanitation claimed that their area has grown by the adding of areas such as Mankweng, Sebayeng, Molepo, Chuene-Maja, Dikgale and a part of Aganang and their staff complement decreased, as those going on pension or resigned have not been replaced. This resulted in an overload of work, having to be done after normal working hours, exacerbated by old, dilapidated infrastructure and pipe bursts. Energy services claimed that they are on call at all hours to do emergency repairs and maintenance, due to old infrastructure, cable and copper theft, overloading of the network during winter due to the use of heating apparatus and not enough money for pre-emptive maintenance.
Fibre optic contractors also caused a lot of damage to cables and this was usually reported after hours. Loadshedding by Eskom also contributed to longer working hours, as did limited staff working due to the lockdown.
Community services complained about having more funerals during weekends, grass cuttings over weekends and tree pruning, because they did not have the correct equipment which they had to borrow from the energy services directorate over weekends.
Sport and recreation staff had to repair pitches and do ground preparation, and the opening of the game reserve also caused more work when re-opening in August. Sport officials had to assist at the Peter Mokaba Stadium over weekends as the food bank was kept there.
The waste management section complained about having to work weekends due to truck breakdowns. Traffic officials had to assist in ensuring protocols being complied with and had to disinfect three licensing offices, municipalities, taxi ranks, 13 traditional authorities’ offices and palaces, shopping malls and centres and public parking spaces, among others.
The budget and Treasury offices staff had to capture employee-related costs, overtime, standby allowances, unpaid leave, insurance, trade union forms, ward councillor payments and supply chain management staff issued equipment during emergency hours and asset registers had to be kept as well as year-end processes finalised.
Council pleaded with directors to reduce overtime expenditure and that the Municipal Manager must hold Directors accountable. Polokwane Mayor, Thembi Nkadimeng said it was a fair request, and mayoral council members must make sure Directors ensure compliance.
Story: Nelie Erasmus