Polokwane resident, Leoni Janse van Vuuren (53) and her son Leonard Smit (25) were among five people who died in a collision between two vehicles and a truck on the N1 outside Mookgophong on Sunday afternoon.
Leoni and Leonard were on their way to Polokwane after dropping off her other son, Christo, at the O R Tambo International Airport when their sedan collided with a hatchback that is said to have swerved into their lane after a rear tyre reportedly burst.
A truck that was behind the sedan subsequently collided with both vehicles and overturned.
Van Vuuren’s rental vehicle caught fire and she was later identified by her dental records. Leonard was reportedly flung from the car. All occupants of the other vehicle died on the scene while the truck driver escaped with minor injuries.
Janse van Vuuren and her husband, Johan, were social members of the Polokwane Athletic Club.
He told Polokwane Observer he was working on his computer at home on Sunday afternoon while waiting for Leoni and Leonard to return home when he learnt about the incident on social media.
“I tried to reach Leoni to alert her of the accident but her cell phone went unanswered. About two hours later my call to Leonard went through and it was answered by a police officer who provided more details on the incident. I rushed to the scene only to find that the bodies had been removed, but the vehicle was Leoni’s rental car,” Johan said.
Van Vuuren was the branch manager at Steeledale Best Fence and Smit was a service advisor at Westvaal Polokwane.
The Janse van Vuuren’s were married short of four years. Smit matriculated at Hoërskool Pietersburg in 2012.
Johan remembers his wife as someone who was loved by all.
“She had such a kind heart and love for her two sons. She touched the lives of so many people and I received messages from hundreds of friends, some from as far as the US, Australia, Germany, Canada and The Netherlands, to name only a few,” Johan added.
According to Johan, the couple shared a love for photography and Leoni was known for many prize-winning nature photos. She also loved animals and took photos at weddings. Leoni is survived by Johan and Christo, her father Piet Viljoen, sisters Lizette, Letitia and Lorentia and brothers Pieter, Jaco, Pierre and Dewald.
Funeral arrangements had not yet been finalised at the time of going to print.
Story: Barry Viljoen