Officials working at Polokwane Correctional Centre who have just been alerted of a relocation to the Tzaneen Correctional Centre, have written to the minister seeking intervention, saying they will not be able to leave their families behind at such short notice.
The officials told Polokwane Observer that they were notified on 26 September that they would be reporting in Tzaneen on 1 November after being permanently appointed at the Polokwane Correctional Centre in 2017.
In the letter addressed to the minister, the officials state that their main concern is the effect of the relocation on their families and children, saying that a month is not enough time to pack up and leave a place they have grown to call home.
“It has been more than three years at Polokwane Correctional Centre and one can imagine the changes that have occurred individually since we have been here.
To some of us Polokwane is home, our families are here and we have responsibilities located around Polokwane as we assumed the status quo.” The department, however, refuted their claims, saying all the officials were alerted upon appointment that they would be moved to the Tzaneen facility upon its completion. Sachiel Nemafhohoni, Communications Manager for the Polokwane Management Area says the officials sent to Tzaneen were told that their posts are in Tzaneen when they joined the department.
This was because the centre in Tzaneen was still under construction and they would be working in Polokwane to acquire more knowledge, and to gain experience before they are moved to Tzaneen.
“It was planned on our part and the officials were alerted from the start. They were employed as a group of 100 officials that were meant to increase the number of officials at the centre but they had to wait until it was completed. The officials engaged with their unions and were told that the Tzaneen facility is now complete and were given a time frame to prepare themselves. It was not an ambush.”
Nemafhohoni says any officials who would be negatively affected by the relocation should engage with their manager first for assistance, and if the manager cannot solve the issue he will be the one to escalate the matter to the head of the centre who should pass it on to the area commissioner.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe