Women are taking back the city and the Women Taking Back Safety Movement plans to occupy all hotspots in the city to not only create awareness, but to curb criminal activities.
This comes as the movement was founded after the brutal murder of Lizette and Hettie Deacon and has been in support of the families of those who have been victims of gender-based violence (GBV), femicide and crimes against women and children.
Mmabotse Mothiba, speaking on behalf of the movement, says they have identified high crime areas within the city where some of these criminal activities have been reported.
According to Mothiba the first area that was identified was Boom Street where it is said that numerous crimes are committed, and the prevalence of drugs, criminals and undocumented foreigners is high.
She says by occupying the street they intend on sending a strong message about the core values of the movement. “We are tired of being afraid in our own city, we also want to be able to walk freely without being intimidated, cat-called or assaulted in any part of the city. We want to break the narrative that the streets of Polokwane are dangerous and make every part of the city safe.”
Mothiba says it is unacceptable that the residents of this city feel threatened by a minority that uses violence and crime to instill fear, not only referring to violent crimes but the sale of drugs, expired food, human trafficking and prostitution.
“If we can occupy all these danger areas then we can force criminals out of the city, the only reason why they are still here is because we have allowed them to take over our lives, and dictate to us where and how we live. There are far less criminals than there are residents and if we all took a stand to take back our safety.”
Mothiba says they are working with law enforcement agencies to ensure that the areas are crime free and that it stays that way.
She says working with law enforcement agencies, also ensure the safety of the women when they visit these areas.
“When we visit these hotspots we are heavily guarded by police officers, traffic officials and various other security personnel to ensure our safety. This also sends a strong message that shows we have the law on our side.”
She adds that one of the biggest contributors of crime in the city is undocumented foreigners.
“We are not xenophobic, we love having people from other countries who are here to seek jobs and offer skills, but they need to adhere to our laws and remember that visitors have limitations. We cannot have men sitting around all day long without looking for jobs, these are the same men who end up raping our sisters.”
Mothiba says the other areas that have been identified include the city center, Devenish Street from Paul Kruger Street down and Bok Street.
Observer spoke to women, asking if they felt safe in the city, and what they thought the solution to all the violent crimes against women and children is.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe