John Tlou, an unemployed graduate from the city, pleads with the Post Office to allocate more staff to the Covid-19 social relief grant pay points.
Tlou says when he has to get his money from the Post Office it usually takes more than one trip at a cost of R65 which then defeats the purpose.
“On Wednesday I was at Savannah Mall to get my grant and there were 268 people on the list when I arrived. The list is used to determine who got there first as they work on a first-come first-served basis.
When you get there they give you a piece of cardboard where you write your name on and a number is allocated to you. So on that day I noticed that there were only four officials working at the Post Office, who also had to make sure that the usual procedures run smoothly, while also attending to the 268 people who had been queuing for the grant.”
He says he also noticed that he was not going to be assisted because of how slow the lines had been moving due to the lack of staff. He added that of those four officials, one was stationed at the door, one was assisting with the Covid-19 social relief grants and the other two assisting with vehicle registration and other Post Office procedures.
“Around 178 or 168 people had to go home and come back the following day. This is a problem because other than the money I used for transport I had to use R130 just to be able to receive R350 because of the slow service at the Post Office.”
He says he has noticed this happening at the Post Office in the Central Business District, Library Gardens, Indian Centre and Ladanna where people had to leave without receiving their grants.
He believes the solution is to increase the number of workers.
Johan Kruger, from the communications division of the Post Office says citizens who apply for the Covid-19 relief grant will receive two SMSes from Sassa.
The first SMS informs them when the application was successful and Sassa then sends the second SMS once the grant has been paid over into a Postbank account and the beneficiary can collect it.
“We have found that large numbers of beneficiaries visit the Post Office after receiving the first SMS, when their money is not yet available. They also visit their local Post Office to check on the status of their application.
We advise these beneficiaries to check online and to visit their Post Office only once they have received the second SMS. Currently the Post Office pays out relief grants for almost five million Covid relief beneficiaries countrywide.”
He says the system has been adapted to provide for the larger amounts of money that beneficiaries are now entitled to.
The Covid-19 relief grant scheme is scheduled to run for six months only.
“The scheme is now winding down and for that reason the Post Office cannot appoint additional employees. It should also be noted that capacity at each post office is restricted by the number of work stations available,” says Kruger.
Customers with feedback on Post Office service can contact them on Twitter account at @PostOfficeSA, or they can send an e-mail to customer.services@postoffice.co.za.
The toll-free number at the Post Office’s contact centre is 0860 111 502.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe