A year full of adventure while finding yourself and building a relationship with God. That is what the programme Year of your Life presented by Datya Mission Year is all about.
Youth that are unsure about what they want to do after school can join the programme. “This year is for those who are passionate about Jesus Christ, who want to fulfill the great commission of Mathews 28:18-20 and are adventurous. It is not only for school leavers, but also for people who believe they have an evangelist or missionary heart and calling. They should be between 18 and 40 years, vibrant and willing to learn about God’s word, evangelism, mission work, other cultures and countries,” explains Darrin Erskine, founder of the programme.
He added that those who wish to join should be ready to commit a year of their life, to go out and serve local communities, the country and not be afraid to cross borders to go and give God’s good news.
Erskine explains that those attending the year will receive theological training, evangelist and missionary training, survival training, discipleship and personal growth courses, foundation for farming training, Bible school training and a lot more.
“There is also an adventure side where they will learn horse riding, canoeing, hiking and camping, mountain bike and 4×4 training as well as the option of skydiving and scuba diving. This is a year about finding out who you are, body, spirit and soul, making friends, travelling and searching God’s word. You will discover who you are and be able to see who God is and discover the purpose for your life.”
The programme is based at a game farm not far from Polokwane. There will be cross border missionary and evangelism training in Malawi and Botswana as well as in the Philippines, Armenia and Russia.
“This is a new type of training for missionaries and as far as I am aware the only full year training or Year of your Life for evangelists and missionaries in Limpopo and South Africa.”
For more info contact Darrin at datyaministries@gmail.com or 066 008 5948.
Photo & Story: Maretha Swanepoel
maretha@nmgroup.co.za