The Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100 is currently providing more than 400 people in the city and surrounds with food parcels but is currently facing shortages of money and items to include into the food parcels that are delivered to people in need.
“For several years, the Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100 has been assisting the community by providing material assistance,” the club’s logistical manager, John Dunlevey explains.
According to Dunlevey, the main thrust of the outreach project has shifted to providing people with basic foodstuffs.
“In March 2020 (before the lockdown) some 40 individuals and eight organisations were being assisted, but as of 1 June over 400 persons in dire need are receiving fortnightly food packages and, with the help of over 12 other organisations, some 6 000 other persons are assisted on an ad hoc basis, thanks to the generous donations from the business sector and the farming community.
The Rotarians have, with the assistance of other outreach bodies, been able to distribute over 112 tons of vegetables (including tomatoes, butternuts, potatoes, onions, oranges, grapefruit and avocado pears) with a value in excess of R1,55 million to those in desperate need,” Dunlevey stated.
“Unfortunately, we had to obtain staple requirements such as soya, pasta, maize meal, soup packs and rice packs as the core of this project and funds are rapidly becoming depleted. Under lockdown restrictions it is impossible to arrange our annual fund-raising events that are normally used to finance the purchase of materials needed by this project,” Dunlevey explained.
On Friday, the Rotarians delivered two pallets of e-pap donated by the Rotary Club of Northcliff to a school in Mankweng.
EPX Courier Services collected the food in Gauteng free of charge. Should you be able to assist in any way, please contact President Horst Meyer on 072 616 3339, Secretary Naas Vorster on 083 635 0588 or Project Coordinator Richard Wilson on 083 283 1097.
Story & Photo: Barry Viljoen
>>barry.observer@gmail.com