Seven young soccer players from the Limpopo Sports School of Excellence Football Academy will play for the Kaizer Chiefs Development team next season.
Talented soccer stars, Penyo Choshane, Thato Segolela, Potego Mahlatji, Setlamorago Ramaripa, Kamogelo Nkoana, Phumelelo Makola, Kutlwano Nchabeleng were selected by Chiefs’ scouts during a friendly match held in Gauteng in February.
According to their mentor and coach, Hendrick Mukwevho, the players will join their counterparts from various parts of the country at Chiefs next season.
“They were supposed to move to Gauteng in April to join Chiefs but the move was put on hold due to the nationwide lockdown.”
Mukwevho says his dream is to give aspiring and talented soccer players from rural and remote areas in the province an opportunity to play football at top level.
“These are boys from Moletjie and Sekhukhune, which are areas with limited resources and opportunities. They joined the academy four years ago and they have shown commitment and dedication. They know what their objectives are and they are always eager to achieve more. They are still young and they know what is expected of them.
“We have full confidence in them and strongly believe that they will remain disciplined and continue with the hard work. We want them to follow the likes of Tiyani Mabunda and Cassius Mailula who are the graduates of our academy. The duo have signed lucrative deals with Mamelodi Sundowns Football Club.”
Thato Segolela, a Gr 10 learner at Northern Academy Independent School who is a nephew of former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana midfielder, Tlou Segolela said he was happy to be chosen.
He says the move will enable him to follow in the footsteps of his uncle.“This is an opportunity for me to showcase my talent and compete with some of the best young talented players in the country. I will make good use of the opportunity. As for my uncle, I want to be like him and play football at top level. He has left a legacy in the football world and I want to continue with that legacy. I know it is not an easy road but I am willing to work harder and achieve my goals,” Segolela said.
Setlamorago Maripa said the move to Chiefs will increase his chances of playing for the national team.
“I am grateful for the opportunity. The move will give us more exposure. I promise to work hard and play all the matches. I want to catch the attention of the national team scouts for the u/17 team,” Maripa said.
Story & Photo: Herbert Rachuene
reporter03@nmgroup.co.za