Scores of residents who require services at the Municipal Traffic Department can anticipate to stand in long queues, longer than expected due to a somewhat dysfunctional National Traffic Information System (Natis).
The system provides for the registration and licensing of vehicles, manages record applications and authorisations of drivers and learner’s licences. With the national lockdown regulations eased to allow some businesses to operate as of today, 1 June under level 3, motorists flocked to the Traffic Department in Ladanna this morning in the hope of receiving speedy service.
These hopes were shattered when they learnt that Natis was slow to respond hence delaying the process. People started queueing as early as 05:00 and they were still not assisted by 09:00 although the station opened at 07:00 and close at 18:00. When Polokwane Observer visited the department, it was observed that only those who were there to change vehicle ownership were allowed to enter the premises for assistance.
Polokwane Executive Mayor, Thembi Nkadimeng indicated that Natis was delaying the process and reiterated that they were hopeful that the system would kick-in by 10:00. She said they were aiming to assist at least 150 people by the end of business today and added that officials will be working in shifts to comply with the lockdown regulations. According to her, each shift will have 16 officials on duty as she mentioned that all the three traffic stations being Ladanna, Aganang and Mankweng were assessed by the Department of Transport and they were all given a green light to start operating.
Nkadimeng encouraged residents to visit their nearest station for assistance rather than coming to town in large numbers. She reminded customers to stick to the safety rules as she outlined that the municipality has done its part by providing all necessary health measures to help curb the spread of Coronavirus. Nkadimeng concluded by saying the municipality will use SMS’s to notify customers as to when they can visit the station to avoid standing in long queues.
Story & Photos: Endy Senyatsi