One lucky player from Gauteng won R37 million by using the same numbers for four years. The winner has been playing the lottery since he was 19 years old. He won with a R20 ticket while playing for the draw on Wednesday, 29 July 2020. According to the unnamed winner, his biggest win was only R1200 and it came in with a big shock when he heard the news about the R37 million winning ticket.
Some habits can lead to victories
According to the winner he has mixed emotions about the money he won and stated that he can’t even sleep since he found out that he won the jackpot. He explained that his last few days were a roller coaster of emotions. He started playing when he was 19 years old and his biggest win was only R1200. This is why the R37 Million ticket came in as a big shock and surprise to him.
Not only has he been playing the same numbers for the Lotto but also for the PowerBall and Daily Lotto. He was wondering if he should change his strategy and use the quick pick selection. But before he bought the ticket something in his gut told him to stick with his usual combination.
After he bought the ticket, he kept an eye on social media the next day to check the winning numbers. As he was reading the news he saw that someone had won the lottery. When he was looking at the winning numbers, he noticed that some of the numbers he usually picked appeared and when he got to the fifth number, he realized that he might actually be the jackpot winner. The SA lotto winning numbers were 6, 16, 23, 26, 33 and 48, and the bonus number was 7.
According to the winner, he didn’t tell any family member about his jackpot win as this might cause him unwanted problems and compromise his safety. He further told the national lottery operator that he plans on buying a car for his business so he could travel around the province to meet his clients. He also plans to extend his motherhouse and erect a tombstone for his late father. He stated that he will only buy himself a house next year to keep his identity anonymous and rather invest small amounts towards the growth of his business. The rest will go to making sure he and his mother live a comfortable life for many years to come.