Wesley Methodist Church Polokwane held an appreciation picket at the Mediclinic Limpopo parking lot in honour of healthcare workers on Tuesday.
The church members were holding placards bearing messages of encouragement and appreciation of the hospital staff which has been working tirelessly in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. They sang gospel hymns as the staff watched and sang along from the parking lot and the balconies above, for those that were unable to join in the festivities on the ground. The church’s youth pastor, Norma Chaitezvi explained that the church members were divided into four groups which visited Mediclinic, Netcare Pholoso, Rethabile Healthcare Centre and Pietersburg Provincial Hospital.
“We are excited to be able to come and say thank you. This is our way of showing appreciation for all the work that you do. As a church, we are with you in spirit and prayer,” she said.
After the picket the ceremony moved inside where the hospital launched a tree of hope in tribute of the staff and patients that have battled the Covid-19 virus, and survived, and those who succumbed. The tree has green leaves which symbolise the 302 patients who have recovered from Covid-19, the 204 cherry blossoms represent the healthcare workers who recovered after contracting the virus and the 40 brown leaves represent the patients who have fallen.
The hospital General Manager, MC Botha said that the tree is a symbol of hope for the future. “Having hope gives direction and purpose to move forward. It gives energy to move on. Let us keep hope and know that this will pass,” he said.
Also on the programme was Vonani Neluvhalani, a patient who survived Covid-19.
The 44-year-old mother of five explained that when she tested positive for Covid-19, she prayed to God to save her because she has a family to go home to.
She further expressed how lonely the journey to recovery is but with the support and care that she received from the staff at Mediclinic she was able to make a full recovery. Gugulethu Rangata, the Deputy Nursing Manager who also survived Covid-19, said that she was anxious to recover and get back to work because she knew that she was needed to assist other patients in the fight against the disease.
Story: Miranda Chauke