Commuters and road users in Seshego have expressed discontent over the inability of Polokwane Municipality to complete the old Seshego road.
The road was closed in October 2018 for a face-lift and was expected to be completed in October 2019 and there is still no progress.
The delays have prompted commuters in Mohlakaneng and Luthuli Park to travel 7km to the Circle Centre to catch a taxi.
Commuters are saying the closure of the road has caused a lot of inconvenience.
“The closure of the road is causing traffic jams in the morning and afternoon peak hours. It is difficult to get to the CBD on time because of the traffic jams. Things were a lot better as the road was in operation because motorists had options. Everyone is using the Nelson Mandela Drive and it’s hectic,” said Letladi Masaka from Mohlakaneng area.
Another concerned resident, Rose Lapeng said that they don’t feel safe when they travel from Luthuli Park to Circle Centre for a taxi. “The delays are tiring and emotionally draining. Also in the evenings the taxi drops us off at the Circle Centre and we have to take another taxi back home, it is appalling. We want the municipality to expedite the upgrades so that we can go back to our normal lives.”
Spokesperson for the Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo said they are aware of the concerns raised by commuters and motorists.
He said the current progress of the upgrades to date is 77% and the anticipated date for opening of the roadway is 25 September 2020. “We experienced delays and some of the challenges experienced included but are not limited to, contractor cash flow challenges, poor construction planning by contractor, existing services both from the municipality and other sectors, delays in material deliver from commercial sources and the regulations regarding the nationwide lockdown.”
Mothapo stressed that the upgrades are aimed at increasing the capacity of Polokwane Drive to enable it to handle traffic coming into and going out of the Seshego Circle Hub.
“We also want to improve the capacity of Polokwane Drive as an alternative link between Seshego and the CBD, as well as the proposed new hubs at Seshego Junction and Makgathoville (via Madiba Park Street),” concluded Mothapo.
Story: Herbert Rachuene