Lesiba Makhura says he prefers a life of going through trash over a life of crime.
Makhura has been in Polokwane since 2008. He first worked for a manufacturing company but this left him unemployed after it closed down in 2012.
Since then, Makhura has mainly been surviving by going through people’s trash on municipal collection days, in the hope of scoring a quick meal and some items that can be recycled or sold for cash. He says it is not easy to get a job because of a mental condition he was born with.
“I was lucky to get the job that I lost in 2012. Since then I have not been able to get a proper job. Sometimes I am lucky to get a day job such as gardening or helping people who are moving.”
Makhura says he is not ashamed of being seen picking through dustbins, as it is a better alternative to living a life of crime.
“The temptations are always there, but I have so much self-control that I would never consider it. Sometimes I am lucky and someone gives me money but otherwise I am happy to find the little I can.”
Makhura says he works according to the municipal waste schedule: on Mondays he is in the Welgelegen area, Tuesdays in Bendor and so forth.
“I have to wake up as early as possible in order to be the first one to go through the trash. Sometimes the other guys try to intimidate me or take whatever I have collected, from me. I do not like fighting so if they want to take, then I let them take.”
He says that he is generally a very peace-loving person.
“If a homeowner shouts at me while I am picking the trash, I will pack up and move on to the next house. I know there are guys who use trash as an excuse to scout the houses for robberies and their doing ends up affecting me as well. I always try to keep the trash in the state I got it. When I am done, I pack up and close the refuse bags like I found them.”
He pleads with anyone who bumps into him on the street to spare any extra change or trash that he can use to recycle. “Whatever anyone can give, I will accept with open arms.”
Story: Umpha Manenzhe