The 2019/20 winners of the second division of South African Football, GladAfrica Championship will brag with a newly designed trophy and a R3 million cash prize on 30 August. Runners-up will receive R1,5 million while third place will take home R1 million.
This is a huge hike from the R300 000 which was pocketed by the winning team in the past seasons. Speaking on the unveiling of the new trophy in Gauteng last Wednesday, GladAfrica Group Executive Chairman, Noel Mashaba said the unveiling of the trophy marks a major milestone in the partnership with the Premier Soccer League.
The new trophy was forged by 10 artisans, over 150 hours, using a combination of traditional skills and leading design technology. The majestic GladAfrica Championship trophy is the crowning glory of the league’s pursuit of excellence. Its design speaks to GladAfrica’s commitment to Africa, the place, Africa, the people, and Africa, the pursuit. The trophy symbolises GladAfrica’s commitment to the development of communities by availing opportunities to the less fortunate and providing a platform for them to discover their full potential. Mashaba added that since entering into this partnership with the PSL, they have spent a significant amount of time trying to figure out what symbol would best represent our commitment to this beautiful sport that is so much loved the world over. “We wanted a product that embodies the values and traditions of GladAfrica as a business while embracing the spirit of football, and the people of this continent for whom football means everything. From the initial draft design, we moved from one amendment to another until such time that we were satisfied. It was an involved and often taxing process.” Irvin Khoza, Chairman of the PSL said the partnership between the PSL and GladAfrica is an exciting relationship because it celebrates the African story of excellence. “We must thank GladAfrica for being part of our family. We know they are strong in engineering services and you can see that this new trophy is as a result of attention to detail. It is something to be proud of. This current season in the GladAfrica Championship has been very exciting and unpredictable and this has always been the strength of our league.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene