Tenda has been in business since 1999 and is today one of the most trusted networking brands around.
The company moves at a fast pace to adapt to the continuous changes happening in the networking world. One of their primary focuses is the creation and the improvement of wireless networking products.
It has become their mission to provide fast, secure and intelligent network systems that work optimally anytime, anywhere, and there are many reasons why Tenda products have a place in your business.
Their product catalogue is helpfully divided into solutions for the home and solutions for the business. If you are a business owner, or the person in charge of keeping the company connected, these are the 7 reasons why Tenda products might be the most suitable for your establishment.
Switchcom is a South African based networking accessories, devices and tools supplier. We stock one of the widest varieties of products from the world’s leading networking brands including Cambium Networks, Mimosa, Ubiquiti, and Extralink. Products can be ordered online and delivered anywhere in South Africa. Visit their website: https://www.switchcom.co.za/ or contact them on: 010 007 2555.

Wide Coverage 

Whether it is the home or the business, having wide Wi-Fi coverage is a must not just because it makes work simpler, but because it’s incredibly convenient to have that kind of reach, especially if you wish to minimise network cabling.

Global Client Base 

The extensive global reach allows more companies to access Tenda products and their helpful support. This reach is equally fantastic for Tenda, because it enables them to collect data from all over, which can then be used for innovation purposes.
Tenda products can be bought in South Africa from suppliers who’ve formed a partnership with the company, and as such can offer these incredible products at reduced prices.

Warranty 

Many of Tenda’s products are covered by a warranty, should something go wrong within the first year of them being used. To ensure that this warranty is valid, the newly bought product should be inspected and the necessary paperwork, like receipts, should be kept.

Advice and Support 

The company aims to assist clients in such a way that they can get the most out of their purchase. Not only is Tenda quite easy to get in touch with, but they have filled their website with helpful information, including a list of frequently asked questions which can be the quick solution to those most common queries.
There is also the option of accessing their consistent online service.

Affordability 

Naturally, when a business is looking to add a wireless network, price becomes one of the ultimate deciding factors. Based on the fact that their products are immensely durable and reliable, Tenda is affordable and a great addition for any business.
Prices will vary depending on if you intend to work with a networking supplier or order your products directly.

Mesh Products 

Tenda is one of only a few companies that makes use of mesh Wi-Fi devices. This technology is capable of providing extensive, consistent coverage.

Apps

To elevate the entire Wi-Fi experience, Tenda products include an app which can be used for controlling access given to guests. This app will also provide control over and monitoring for online activity, which, when used in the home, is a fantastic way to keep children safe while they are using the web.