Along the N1 close to Ivydale, a brave woman has for the last 20 years been a haven for many who have found themselves living on the streets.
Over the years, Pamela Chamisa has developed a self-sustaining community of around 250 people.
Originally from Zimbabwe, she came to the country two decades ago after getting married to a local man.
Pamela rents the plot from a local businessman, and even though the amount of R40 000 per month is steep, she says she always finds a way.
“Some of the people who stay here have been with us since the beginning.
“They can’t afford to go elsewhere. Due to the lockdown, most of them have not been able to earn an income.”
“We have become used to surviving together as one big family.”
Over the years, she has had to subdivide certain parts of the property in order to accommodate more people.
“When someone need accommodation, we try to create space for them.”
They use a small piece of land on the plot for agricultural purposes.
“Everyone who stays here does their bit to help with the farming and harvesting of vegetables. This we sell to earn an income. It also includes wheat that is used to bake bread for everyone and which is sold to local bakeries.”
Working towards a common goals is key, Pamela said.
“Here, we all work. We rotate shifts and make sure the plants are watered daily. It is a bit difficult in the winter, but we are hopeful that in the summer things will get better.
“Even the young children learn at a young age to put in their weigh for the benefit of the community.”
With the money they make from farming, they were able to start farming with chickens.
“We started with a few chicks that we sold to make money, and I was able to buy more chickens until now, that we’ve established an entire poultry farm.”
Amid trying times, Pamela remains hopeful for the future: “We need to remember to be kind in everything we do. We are all here because of each other.
“At times, it is a struggle just to survive, but as long as everyone does their bit, we will be fine.”
Story: Umpha Manenzhe