One of the promising young talents at Polokwane City Football Club, Lesiba Nku wants to make an impact in the Premier Soccer League (PSL).
The 24-year-old defender from Maltswaing village in the Lephalale area joined Polokwane City’s reserve team two years ago from Barcelona Sports Academy in Ga-Matlala.
He was part of the 2018 City’s Reserve Multichoice Diski Challenge team that completed the challenge in the second position. His exploits in the challenge earned him a promotion to Polokwane City’s first team in the 2018/19 Premier Soccer League (PSL) season.
He made his PSL debut in the MTN 8 Cup competition in August last year and helped City to reach their first semi-final of the cup where they were defeated by Highlands Park on penalties. “I was happy to have played in the MTN 8 Cup which is one of the biggest cup tournaments in the country. I played all matches and we wanted to win the title but luck was not our side,” Nku said.
He said an injury against Baroka Football Club in the Limpopo derby in January derailed his momentum. “I was playing regularly before a nasty hamstring injury that put me out of the starting eleven. However, I have recovered now and I am hoping to get back on the field of play.”
He described the lockdown period as a blessing in disguise. “We are happy that we will be resuming with league matches soon. This was one of the longest breaks in football which also gave me an opportunity to recuperate. I went through the rehabilitation process and I am fully fit. I was training on my own during the lockdown and I later joined my teammates during the group training sessions. I am ready and confident to get back in the field.”
He says he wants to make an impact in the PSL and catch the attention of the national team selectors. “The road to PSL was not an easy one for me. I participated in local soccer trials and my efforts were futile but I never gave up. My promotion to first team was not a fluke. I worked extremely hard in the reserve team and for me to make it to the national team, I must continue in the same vein of determination,” Nku said
Some of his major accolades include the defender of the tournament, he won at the Tlou Segolela Tournament in Moletjie in 2015.
Story: Herbert Rachuene