Model flying is not only a sport that involves split second decisions but also requires a great deal of skills that can only be acquired through hours of training and lots of experience.
This became quite clear when we recently visited Capricorn Model Flying Club to learn more about this sport code from club chairperson, Dirk de Klerk and his deputy, Johan du Plooy and instructor Rudi Weterman.
According to De Klerk, the club was established in 1972 with Pieter Tiersma, Rick van Belkom, Piet van Staden, Sakkie Pretorius and Martin Erasmus as some of the founder members and started to operate from the same premises in Diemeer Street where it is still situated.
“The land was leased from the municipality and members had to remove truckloads of stones and rubble to construct the first runway that was in later years upgraded to an asphalt surface,” De Klerk said.
De Klerk explained that new members are assigned to an instructor who ensures that the new pilot obtains a thorough knowledge of the dynamics of flying as well as the operation of rudders, ailerons and elevators on the ground before afforded the opportunity to take-off under supervision. Once qualified and tested, a pilot may fly solo.
It is also a requirement that all model pilots are registered with the South African Model Aircraft Association (Saama) to ensure that the necessary public liability insurance is in place.
According to De Klerk, hand-eye coordination is most important when flying. “You must always have your aircraft visual and once airborne there is no time to think about your problems with Sars. Keep focused or your may loose your aircraft,” he believes. De Klerk remembers the dropping of the ashes of a deceased club member, Noel Booysen on the runway some three years ago as one of the highlights of the club’s activities as well as regular fly-ins
and club days.
Model flying enthusiasts can either purchase complete model planes or opt to build their own from plans. “Building planes is a hobby, while flying is a sport,” Weterman explained and added that model flying is a family activity for young and old.
“Our youngest member is eight years old and the oldest is 75 and all are welcome to join. Club fees are reasonable and an entry level aircraft with accessories can be acquired for about R4 000,” he explained.
Story: Barry Viljoen