Healthcare workers have been the backbone of society since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.
They have been putting their lives on the line with every shift and Covid-19 infected patient that they treat and yet they continuously sacrifice their livelihoods by being on the frontline.
The pandemic has not only affected the healthcare workers’ personal lives, it has also changed their day to day routine on the job.
Polokwane Observer spoke to doctors Peters Mathebula and Rhulani Khosa who run the emergency department at Netcare Pholoso Hospital. They agree that the hospital staff and doctors have adjusted well to the drastic changes that came as a result of the pandemic and have shown courage and dedication.
Mathebula gave more insight into the changes that have taken place, sharing that after a long day at work in protective gear, the first thing he does when he gets home is take a shower before he can even greet his family.
“We as healthcare workers were deeply concerned, and in some instances understandably scared when this pandemic first started making its presence felt in the country and in our province.
“Now, however, we know much more about what we are dealing with, the hospital was proactive in putting in place comprehensive measures and a new work-flow systems to help safeguard healthcare workers, and we have quickly adapted to counter the threat to us.
“We know what is required to prevent the spread of the virus and this has effectively become second nature to us all,” he said.
Khosa said that the mindset has had to change and they treat every patient that comes through their doors as a potential Covid-19 patient even if they are coming in for a broken leg.
“We’re always donning our protective gear and taking all necessary disinfection precautions. Furthermore, the nursing and other staff members also understand that the hospital and emergency department have their best interests at heart and will always take every possible precaution to keep them safe while they are at work. “This has instilled considerable confidence in the hospital and the processes it has put in place following the Covid-19 outbreak,” he explained.
The scheduling of shifts has been reworked to give the nursing staff sufficient time off and the hospital also monitors its staff closely by screening and testing on an ongoing basis. The staff receive ongoing training in safeguarding themselves, their colleagues and patients.
The confidence of the hospital staff is also affected by the hospital being well- equipped for emergency cases. It has 12 isolation cubicles, four resuscitation bays and two decontamination cubicles. General patients consult in an isolation room which is decontaminated using state-of-the-art disinfecting robots and other disinfecting methods.
Story: Miranda Chauke