In celebrating the achievements of women across all strides, Polokwane Observer spoke to three local women who excel in their respective industries.
Kulani Hobyane, affectionately known as MsKulie, is a gem in the entertainment industry. She works as a master of ceremonies, rapper, songwriter and radio presenter. She says being a South Africa woman means being an endangered species. “We read about women and children being killed and I never know if I will be next or one or if my sisters is next.”
MsKulie believes being a woman also mean being a queen, as women lead their households, communities and workplaces.
Being in the industry allows her the platform to spread inspiration. “The time has come for more women to be given an opportunity to lead shows.
Being a female rapper, you are always expected to sound sexier or more ladylike which is not always what all female rappers want.”
MsKulie wishes to see more women take up positions that will allow them to showcase their capabilities and be given platforms without sexual favours.
“There is not enough support for women in the music industry. I only get asked for radio interviews in August as it is Women’s Month. I am proud to have been true to myself and what I want in my music career. I have had many instances where I thought everything was at a standstill with my radio career and music but found myself back on my feet.”
Mary-Jane Ramusi, a political figure affiliated with the ruling party, believes women have the capabilities to lead the party and the country.
“Being a woman means power, substance, knowledge along with the will and ability to do something. Women are the engines of this world. Politics has played a role in shaping women.”
Ramusi says the role played by government is not to ensure that women are celebrated. “There is a disbelief around the capabilities of women. Women need to rise and show each other and men, that they have the power to make the world run.”
Ramusi feels she is constantly questioned simply because she is a woman.
“Women have to work twice or thrice as hard to get where they want to be in society. Women always deputise, we do not have a female president or even a secretary.”
Ramusi says her vision is to see more women occupy space and groom each other up into the man’s world. “We need to believe in ourselves and our capabilities. That is the only way we will be able to conquer. I root for a female president, a female premier and a female everything else.”
Cecilia Molokwane is the President of Netball South Africa and says being a woman means; “Crying and still saying it is okay. It means having to love and appreciate what you have and what God gave you, being a loving mother and a good example – no matter what the circumstances are.”
Sport has taught Cecilia discipline, commitment and to work hard. “As a woman you always have to prove yourself and that’s what we should change for the future generations. Your skill and attributes should speak for you.
“Historically, we have had to deal with women in sport not being taken seriously. We see change now and more women assume prominent positions.”
Cecilia would like to believe that even though women still have a long way to go, the field is accommodating.
She says it is about time the country challenges corporate South Africa to start investing in winners and women’s sport.
“I imagine a life where we have netball players and coaches waking up in the morning to play and coach the sport they love and get paid for it. I would like to see a time where we bring some of the best players from all corners of the world to come play netball in our country.”
Cecilia’s proudest moment in sport would be being the visionary who wanted South Africa to bid for the 2023 Netball World Cup and seeing that coming to fruition in such a short of time after taking office as Netball South Africa President.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe