Motorists who use the bus lane in Nelson Mandela Drive reserved for the Leeto La Polokwane buses will be fined.
This is according to Communication and Marketing Manager at Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo.
Motorists and taxi operators are usually seen driving in the lane during peak hours to avoid traffic jams. Joggers and cyclists are also urged to refrain from using the lane to avoid incidents.
Mothapo said officers will issue fines for transgressors. “The bus lane is not accessible to motorists, our officers will be manning that road and they will issue fines to offenders.”
Mothapo also added that should all go according to plan the bus is expected to operate before the end of this year.
“We are just a step away from the bus systems. All systems are ready. We have achieved a lot with new road infrastructure management and technology systems. We have already installed Urban Traffic Control (UTC) signals for the Leeto la Polokwane system along Nelson Mandela Drive.
“The newly-upgraded traffic signals contain an extra phase (bus signals) to give priority to the Leeto la Polokwane buses only. We are finalising some of the necessary infrastructure,” Mothapo said.
He added that Leeto La Polokwane will be a household name for all citizens in Polokwane, by providing an affordable public transport service that is safe, reliable, convenient, and universally accessible.
“The Phase 1A of Leeto la Polokwane is expected to start operations before the end of this year. Before the actual operations, Phase 1A consists of two trunk extension routes and two complementary routes which will serve Seshego, Flora Park and Westenburg.
“The complete system will be characterised by the dedicated bus lanes, the use of a travel card, bus stops, a control centre, one median station, a layover facility, trunk extension routes, and complementary routes.”
“Construction of dedicated bus lanes along Nelson Mandela Drive from Zebediela Street to Seshego Circle are now complete. The dedicated lanes will shorten the arrival time of passengers by separating the Leeto buses from the other traffic.
“A median station and a bus depot are under construction. The station will be situated in the CBD along General Joubert Street between Thabo Mbeki and Grobler Street. The bus depot which is situated in Seshego, Zone 8 in New Era Drive Street, will house 36 Leeto la Polokwane buses for Phase 1A operations.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene