Noordelikes Rugby Club winger, Leroy Ndlovu is itching to get back on the field.
Despite the prohibition of contact semi-professional sport from staging matches‚ even behind closed doors, the Giyani-born utility says all amateur rugby clubs should resume with their programmes.
Ndlovu, a sport coordinator at Mitchell House, said most of the clubs have structures in place to ensure that the rules and the regulations of Covid-19 are adhered to.
“We also want to continue playing. We have good managers who can ensure that the technical personnel and players comply. We can play without supporters and perform well. We are itching to get back on the field but it is up to the authorities.”
Ndlovu started playing rugby at Dr Anneke Primary School in Letsitele outside Tzaneen two decades ago. He was part of the u/13 Limpopo team that won a bronze medal in the Coca-Cola Craven Week that took place in Stellenbosch in 2007.
He also played for Border Bulldogs u/21 team and the Blue Bulls 7’s team in 2014 and 2015. He described his time at the two clubs as the most fulfilling and inspirational time of his rugby career. “I was coming from a high school background and getting into the professional setup within a short space of time was surreal.”
He says he would have loved to continue at the Bulls but a knee injury hampered his progress. “I had a terrible injury when I was at the Bulls and during the recuperation process my contract was terminated. It is a painful experience but that is just the harsh reality of life.”
After recovering he moved to Giyani in 2015 and joined Letaba Rugby Club. He was a key player in the team and he was named Player of the Year in 2016. His stellar performances caught the attention of the technical team of Noordelikes who roped him in in 2018.
“I had to bounce back after the injury. I went home to do a little self- introspection. I joined Letaba to keep myself fit and we played friendly matches against other teams in the province. I remember one day we played against Noordelikes and their coaches told me that they were impressed with my performance, and asked if I would join them, I did not hesitate,” Ndlovu concluded.
Story: Herbert Rachuene