Well-known businessman and resident of the city for decades, Jack Schofield was mugged and robbed at knife point while retrieving his mail at the city’s main Post Office in Landdros Maré Street on Sunday afternoon.
A shocked Schofield said that it was a most traumatic experience.
“It was a beautiful day and I drove down to the Post Office with my wife Eileen to stretch our legs after being confined to our home since the nationwide lockdown. Eileen remained in the vehicle and I proceeded to the second last row of postboxes. Just after taking out the mail, two young thugs approached from the passage, threw me on the floor and ripped my pants off to get hold of my wallet. I resisted and moved out behind the postboxes, Eileen realised what was happening and attempted to open her door. A third man also threatened her with a knife and the only thing that she could do was to scream,” Jack related and added that he sustained injuries to his face, back and arms during the struggle.
According to Jack, the men took off and he realised that his wallet containing his driver’s licence, credit cards and R700. “I went home and after the bruises had been attended to, took some sleeping pills and rested.”
“I intend to report the matter to the police but I am reluctant to stand in queues at the police station. I was advised to request the police to obtain the necessary statements at my home.” He urged visitors to the Post Office , to be vigilant and to refrain from visiting the facility during quiet times.
The Schofield’s are well known for their support and involvement in charitable institutions in the city. Jack is an active member and past president of the Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100 and Eileen was the mayor of Pietersburg way back in 1966 and served as a councillor for many terms. She also organises the annual Women’s Charity Tea that is hosted at Protea Hotel Ranch Resort with her sister, Delmari Zamparini and friend, Vicki Shearer.
The matter regarding safety measures at the Post Office has been raised with the management after previous incidents but it seems that some steps to improve the situation have not yielded positive results. Attempts to source comment from the Post Office’s Communications Department were unsuccessful.
Story: Barry Viljoen