A joint press briefing called by youth structures of the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) and South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco), were interrupted and brought to a halt at Frans Mohlala House on Tuesday.
Shortly after the start of the meeting, which was aimed at discussing corruption in the province, ANC Phillip Legodi Branch Secretary Thabo Mabotja and Sanco member in Waterberg Region, Tshipiso Mishack Boskraalshoek barged their way in through the conference room’s locked doors, fighting off a lone security guard in the process.
Defending the honour of the Premier, Stanley Chupu Mathabatha, the men were clear in their message: There was no need for a “bogus meeting”.
They claimed to be the “real Cosas” and branded the others as interlopers, before insulting members of the media.
“The meeting was not in the interest of the ANC or Sanco,” Mabotja exlaimed.
Lepino Ramogale, Sanco Youth Congress Provincial Coordinator, at the start of the press conference, explained that the ANCYL would not be present as they had earlier withdrawn participation on the basis of internal challenges
Ramogale explained the two parties had met on 18 August “to diagnose the success and challenges of the Limpopo Provincial Administration”.
After some senior ANC members arrived and calmed down the two men, it was decided that the press congress would continue outside the gates.
Ramogale explained that the ANC has policies against corruption, but fails to act on it.
“The party defends its corrupt leaders. We cannot allow criminals to destabilise the organisation by manipulating reports to favour their cronies.”
He said it was high time the ANC corrected its members and the organisation, failing which “they would lose elections because of corruption”.
Among other examples, Ramogale said they are seeking answers on a number of activities:
• Sekhukhune was promised its own government office, but this has not realised.
• A convention centre was promised to traditional leaders 10 years ago which also has not realised.
• Food parcel distribution in communities and the poor relationship between certain councillors and traditional authorities.
• Corruption in the Mogalakwena Municipality, and ANC PEC members doing business with the municipality.
• Allegations of rampant corruption with Covid-19 tenders involving the children and relatives of ANC members.
“The people of Limpopo are tired and will not be silenced forever,” he added, saying they have called on the President, Cyril Ramaphosa to intervene and for the premier to step aside.
They also called for the suspension of the MECs of Health, Phophi Ramathuba and Coghsta, Baisikopo Makamu.
Story: Nelie Erasmus