Two members of the executive council (MECs) Polly Boshielo for Education and Thandi Moraka for Sport, Arts and Culture missed the Special Extended Executive Council (Exco) meeting that was held at the Premier’s office yesterday (Wednesday) after the duo had allegedly made contact with Netball SA President, Cecilia Molokwane who have since tested positive for Coronavirus Covid-19 on Tuesday.
Boshielo took to social media on Tuesday to urge residents not to panic as she mentioned that she and Moraka made contact with Molokwane. She explained that they have since subjected themselves to self-quarantine as they await test results.
Information made available to Polokwane Observer by Premier Stan Mathabatha Spokesperson Kenny Mathivha outlined that the Extended Exco was attended by all MECs except the two MECs who may have been exposed to Covid-19 during their interactions in the past two weeks. He stated that Boshielo and Moraka had initially come into contact with a ‘person’ who has since been pronounced positive to the coronavirus recently.
The two have since self-quarantined themselves waiting for their test results, Mathivha explained. He added that as of Wednesday, the province had still recorded four cases as pronounced by the Minister of Health Zwelini Mkhize.
“The Exco also called on citizens not to spread false social media but confine themselves to official statistics and verify such through provided channels of both the toll free and whatssup numbers. The council also adopted a call by MEC for Health, Phophi Ramathuba that if it was possible, people from Gauteng and other provinces should not panic and try to beat the Thursday night deadline of the lock down by driving back to the province,” Mathivha explained.
He went on to state that healthcare workers working together with the South African National Defence Force and the Police have since been placed at most entry points including but not limited to the N1 and R101 main roads.
He warned residents not travel for any reason other than medical or basic need for food. You could face one month in jail or fine or both, he cautioned and reiterated that people should always keep their ID and drivers lisence at all times.
According to Mathivha, government has the right to test anyone for the virus, detain you until the tests are completed and also place you under quarantine for recommended time. Do not take any detours, go straight to your destination and go back home, he stressed.
Mathivha emphasised that the special Exco and the Provincial Command Centre will again meet next Wednesday to receive reports from across the Province. The Premier may call Exco at any given time when situation demands, he concluded.
Story: Endy Senyatsi