The Department of Health’s tracer team has been dispatched to locate anyone who might have been in contact with the 28-year-old local doctor who tested positive for the Coronavirus (Covid-19) upon return from Europe.
This was revealed by Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba during a presser at departmental headquarters on Monday. She said this was the first index case of Covid-19 in Limpopo and further outlined that the doctor has been to France, Spain and the Netherlands. According to her, the team will soon inform the department as to how many people had been in contact with the doctor. He siad he had not seen patients but interacted with some of his colleagues and the tracer team was on a mission to identify his colleagues and his other contacts.
Although Ramathuba could not disclose the name of the doctor, his workplace and where he was currently based, she stressed that upon his return to the province he had not shown any signs or symptoms of the virus. He self-quarantined upon return and went for tests which yielded a positive she explained. She emphasised that a discussion with the patient had proved him to be in high spirit, not coughing, having a fever or feeling ill.
“We have dispatched a team of medical experts to be in contact with him and advise him thoroughly. The team will also trace his contacts so that they can be classified. We are hopeful that the contacts will be minimal. Anyone who has travelled abroad is advised to self-quarantine for at least 14 days,” Ramathuba stressed and urged residents not to panic as the department was convinced that it would win the battle against the virus.
According to Ramathuba, the coming two months won’t be easy for citizens and she requested that people join forces with the health sector to fight the virus. She called upon residents who have travelled abroad to self-quarantine themselves and if they suspect Covid-19 symptoms they should contact the department or public healthcare workers to conduct tests.
The national total had increased to 116 cases by yesterday morning (Wednesday).
Some of the new cases per province:
Gauteng
A 45-year-old male who had travelled to Belgium, United Kingdom, France and the United States of America.
A 37-year-old male who had travelled to the United Kingdom.
A 54-year-old female who had travelled to the United States of America.
A 52-year-old male who had travelled to the United Kingdom.
A 25-year-old male who travelled to the United Kingdom.
A 52-year-old female who had travelled to Italy.
A 59-year-old male who travelled to the United Kingdom and Dubai.
A 57-year-old male who travelled to the United States of America.
A 60-year-old male who travelled to the United States of America.
A 37-year-old female who travelled to Italy and Dubai.
A 21-year-old female with no travel history.
A 34-year-old male with no international travel history.
A 26-year-old female with no international travel history.
A 32-year-old female with no international travel history.
A 22-year-old male with no international travel history.
A 71-year-old female with no international travel history.
Kwazulu-Natal
A 48-year-old male who travelled to Dubai.
A 59-year-old female with no international travel history.
A 5-year-old male with no international travel history.
A 3-year-old male with no international travel history.
Western Cape
A 3-year-old male who travelled to the United Kingdom.
A 58-year-old male who travelled to the United Kingdom and Austria.
A 2-year-old male – no international travel.
A 62-year-old female who travelled to the United Kingdom and Ethiopia.
A 71-year-old female who travelled to the United Kingdom.
Mpumalanga
A 64-year-old male who travelled to Italy.
A 56-year-old female with no international travel history.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za