Talented cognitive and intellectually impaired athletes from across the province took part in an athletics meet at the Old Peter Mokaba stadium yesterday (Wednesday) where they contested for a spot in the provincial squad that will represent Limpopo at the South African Sport Association for the Intellectually Impaired athletics meeting set for Mpumalanga in September.
The meeting was hosted by Limpopo Province Sports Association for the Intellectually Impaired (LPSA-II). Special schools that were represented are Ratang, Asiphumelele, Bana ba Thari, Fulu­fhelo, Jane Furse, Lebone, New Horizon, Benedict and Hope, Phatla Phadima, Rehlahleng, Rethu­sheng, Grace and Hope and Matobele.
Dikgwadi Mohlabi, President of the South African Sports Association for the Intellectually Impaired.
LPSA-II Public Relations Officer (PRO), Regie Mabitsela said athletes who obtained first and second positions in events would be selected for the provincial team. “We are confident that we will come up with a strong team that will represent the province well at the national event. We are the leading province in athletics. We won 400 medals at the national event last year. We also won an accolade for being the best performing province. We have set the bar every high, our province is full of talented athletes and we believe that they will bring more medals from the national event,” Mabitsela said
At the time of going to press the committee was still finalising the team.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Selina Mashao and Moshibudu Malatsi from New Horizon Special School participated in discus and shot put events.
Executive Members of the (LPSA-II) Lina Makhura, Secretary, Rocky Makgoba, Chairperson, Jonifus Chipu, Deputy Secretary, Regie Mabitsela, PRO and Donald Lekolane, Sport Convenor before the start of the meeting.
The team from Botlokwa Special School with their banner raised high during the opening ceremony.
Athletes from Rehlahleng Special School in Steelpoort during the opening ceremony.
Athletes waiting for the meeting to start.