Information received and contained in an article published last week about 20 learners allegedly testing positive for drugs at a school in Seshego and a gun reportedly found to have been in possession of a learner at another school in the same area elicited response from the principals of the respective schools that were adamant that the information provided by the source was incorrect.
Principal of Masedibu High School, Tekedi Mohloana informed Polokwane Observer that no learners were tested during a so-called operation conducted at the school by Police and members of the Seshego Crime Fighters last Monday.
The same for Rosina Teffu, Principal of Kgaiso Secondary School who denied allegations that a learner was found in possession of a gun during the same operation.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo, who had not responded to Polokwane Observer’s queries concerning the initial article, responded on Friday and indicated, without mentioning the name of any school, that learners had been tested by the South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence but wished not to provide further details on the outcome thereof and referred the publication to the relevant organisation.
“We can only come in if any of the learners is found in possession of drugs, which was not the case during the school visit,” Mojapelo said.
On the matter of a gun allegedly found Mojapelo said that the Police received a call from one of the educators attached to a primary school in Seshego reporting that a Grade 6 learner, aged 12 years, was found in possession of what looked like a gun.
The Police reacted and on arrival at the school they found it to be a toy gun. When interviewing the learner, he explained that he had picked up the toy gun from the bush and that he had no intention of using it to commit any crime. The toy gun was confiscated by the Police.
“There is therefore no learner who was found in possession of a firearm in any of the schools in Seshego,” Mojapelo said.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com