The fact that drunken driving remains a major concern for law enforcement authorities was evident once more when 20 drivers were arrested in just over two hours at a roadblock conducted by Westenburg Police, Community Policing Forums (CPF) and local crime fighters in Ladanna on Sunday morning.
While some of these drivers will face the reality of driving under the influence of alcohol others may face additional charges after trying to evade arrest by trying to drive away which resulted in high-speed chases to bring them to book. A suspect was also arrested for possession of suspected stolen property and dagga found in his vehicle.
Under the leadership of Westenburg Police Station Commander Maimele Pilusa, members of Doornbult and Leeuwkuil CPF joined a contingent of crime fighters to ensure a successful operation.
All vehicles passing through were quickly scanned for roadworthiness while the drivers were tested for drunken driving.
According to Pilusa 21 drivers were arrested while another one was caught to have been in possession of alleged stolen property and dagga.
No one was spared and each and every driver were tested. Those who saw the roadblock from a distance and decided to make a run for it were quickly intercepted by crime fighters.
All chases resulted in the apprehension of the driver under the influence. The driver found in possession of the alleged stolen property which included underwear, perfume as well as dagga, also though he could outwit the Police but were intercepted before he could reach Seshego.
It was noticed that some of the intoxicated drivers had children as passengers. Although apprehended drivers were young and old it was disturbing how many youngsters were caught driving under the influence of alcohol while accompanied by friends after they had visited local clubs.
One of the young drivers who though he could get away in his Opel Corsa got a nasty surprise when he was intercepted. Even though he has diabetes he was also under the influence of alcohol.
Police and crime fighters warned that similar operations would be conducted unannounced at any given location.
Story/photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Westenburg Police Station Commander Maimele Pilusa tests a driver with a breathalyser.
Crime fighters try to open the luggage compartment of a vehicle. Alleged stolen property and dagga were found inside the car.
A crime fighter unpacks the alleged stolen property.
The dagga found inside the vehicle.