In what seems to be have been two separate incidents of possible revenge culminated in the cold blooded killing of a taxi driver in Seshego on Monday and the torching of a tow truck reportedly stolen in Bendor on Friday and of which the smouldering wreckage was found on a gravel road in the Soetdorings area early the following day.
It was learnt that the first incident during which Selby Madimetja Ledwaba (43), a taxi driver, was shot and killed at his home at Extension 71A, was possibly an attack out of revenge following the killing of another taxi driver Simon Sipho Phihlela (43) at the taxi rank at Extension 71B last Wednesday.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that two suspects allegedly entered the home of Ledwaba at around 00:23. It is alleged that the deceased’s daughter was asleep in her bedroom when she heard a door opening and thought it was one of her family members. Suddenly an armed suspect entered her bedroom and ordered her to keep quiet, according to Mojapelo. At that point the second suspect reportedly walked in and the men questioned her about her parents’ whereabouts.
Unaware of what was happening, Ledwaba apparently came out of his room whereupon the suspects opened fire. He was shot several times before the suspects fled the scene on foot.
Police and emergency services were notified and quickly responded. Ledwaba was certified dead on the scene.
Mojapelo indicated that the motive for the brutal attack is not yet known and that investigations are under way. A case of murder has been opened.
A local taxi driver indicated to Polokwane Observer that it might be out of revenge following the killing of Phihlela last Wednesday.
Mojapelo also confirmed the killing of Phihlela and that a manhunt for the suspect(s) had been launched.
He indicated that some members of Seshego/Polokwane Taxi Association had reportedly engaged in a quarrel over the sequence of ferrying commuters on their authorised routes.
A shoot-out allegedly ensued and a taxi driver was wounded. He added that Phihlela’s brother reportedly took him to hospital where he was certified dead on arrival.
Meanwhile, amid complaints about alleged high prices charged by towing services, questions were raised after a tow truck was allegedly stolen in Bendor on Friday evening and found torched in the Soetdorings area the following morning.
The majority of local tow truckers Polo­kwane Observer approached only heard about the incident and could not provide any details of the owner or the towing company.
Asked whether it could be linked to recent fighting among tow truckers they felt it was highly unlikely.
One tow trucker mentioned the recent trend in the industry that customers complain about high prices and that they will sometimes take revenge on a towing company.
It was learnt that some towing companies ask more than R60 000 for storage of a vehicle for 30 days which is, according to the source, a reason for some customers to cause harm to a towing company.
Mojapelo confirmed the incident and indicated that a case of theft of motor vehicle was being investigated.
He said that the complainant alleged that he had parked his truck and gone to bed. When he later went to where it had been parked he found that it had been stolen. This incident allegedly took place between 19:00 on Friday and Saturday morning.
The truck was later found by Westenburg Police in the Soetdorings area where it had allegedly been set alight.
No arrests were made yet.
Anyone with information about any of the three incidents is requested to contact the nearest Police station or contact the crime stop number on 08600 10111.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com