Flora Park Comprehensive High School educators and one of its learners reaped the fruits of hard work when they were celebrated and rewarded at the Capricorn South District awards held at Greenside Primary School recently.
Maureen Mathebula, Lisbeth Mthombeni and Sarah Mabunda were named Best Educators per Subject in Xitsonga Home Language while Sybil Mphephu claimed an award for Best Educator in Tshivenda Home Language. Grade 12 learner, Vhuhwavho Mafunzwaini scooped an accolade for Best Learner in Tshivenda Home Language.
Principal Joseph Masekela congratulated the group for their great achievements saying that they made the school proud and put it on the provincial map. According to him, the awards will motivate them to go beyond the call of duty and that they will also inspire other educators and learners to up their game in order to be recognised. Masekela stressed that the school was aiming to be among the top performing institutions in the province and nationally. He added that they were also pleased with the 89,5% matric pass rate the was achieved last year as their target was 90%.
“We had 152 learners who sat for the National Senior Certificate examinations last year and they managed to acquire 66 bachelor, 41 diploma and 29 certificates passes. This year we are targeting 95% pass rate and I am confident that we will achieve it. Although we are not going to have the study camp this year due to the Coronavirus outbreak, we will engage with our learners via social media groups and other internet platforms. We will also use weekend lessons and what we call ‘subject festivals’ to prepare our learners for the final exams,” Masekela explained.
He thanked the school governing body, parents, educators and the Department of Education’s circuit and district offices for their continued support. He concluded by encouraging learners to study hard and consult their educators whenever they encounter challenges and urged educators to go beyond the call of duty in order to produce the best learners.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Vhuhwavho Mafunzwaini, a Grade 12 learner at Flora Park Comprehensive High School with the certificate she received as Best Learner per Subject in Tshivenda Home Language.Photo: Supplied