The first soccer team of Mohlakaneng High School beat their neighbours, EMS Makunyane
High School 5-4 on penalties to win the inaugural title of the Boy Mamabolo High School Games at Seshego Stadium on Sunday.
Mohlakaneng which boasted with the industrious midfielders Nare Choshi and Itumeleng Selemela eliminated tournament favourites Millennium High School and Luthuli Combined High School on their way to the finals.
For their endeavours they walked away with R15 000 in cash, new soccer kit and a floating trophy.
Tournament founder Boy Mamabolo, Parliamentarian and ANC Milo Malatjie Branch Chairperson in Seshego said the tournament was aimed at revitalising school sport. “School sport is dead and we have taken a resolution as government to revive school sport. We also want to use soccer to fight crime, gangsterism, substance abuse and gender based violence in the Seshego and surrounds,” he said.
Cecilia Molokwane, President of Netball South Africa and Ria Ledwaba, vice-president of the South African Football Association were present at the event.
He also thanked the learners from different schools that came to support the initiative. “We had learners from Bokamoso, Moruleng, Khaiso, Peter Nchabeleng, Makgatho, Luthuli Combined, Millennium, Mohlakaneng, Makunyane and Masedibu high schools who came to support their respective teams,” Mamabolo said.
Itumeleng thanked Mamabolo for giving them a platform to showcase their talent. “We need a platform like this because there are a lot of talented soccer players in Seshego. The stadium was abuzz and members of the community also came to support the tournament. There were a lot of scouts from different clubs in the Premier Soccer League and we hope that they pick one of our players,” Selemela said.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Moses Baloyi from Luthuli Combined School is closed marked by Mohlakaneng High School defender, Nare Choshi.
Itumeleng Selemela, a key player in the Mohlakaneng High School team aims to strike the ball.