Polokwane City Football Club claimed the bragging rights of the Limpopo Premier Soccer League (PSL) derby after thrashing their nemesis, Black Leopards Football Club 2-1 at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Sunday.
City came to the match desperate for points having suffered a 3-2 loss at the hands of Cape Town City Football Club a fortnight ago.
Their feat sees the Polo­kwane based outfit moving up two positions to lie in 13th place of the PSL log.
Zimbabwean international, Charlton Mashumba and former Free State Stars Football Club striker, Sibusiso Hlubi scored the winning goals for City in the second half of the match.
Leopard’s solitary goal came from City defender, Ayanda Nkili after he passed the ball into his own goal from a pass by Leopards striker Mogakolodi Ngele in the second stanza of the match.
Clinton Larsen, Head Coach of Polokwane City Football Club said the victory will motivate the players to do well in their last remaining seven matches of the league. “We played well throughout the match. It was a difficult game but we asked players to leave their all on the field of play and they did that. They showed great character and the fighting spirit. Were solid at the back and compact in the midfield. Winning breeds confidence and we will keep on fighting until the last match of the season,” Larsen said.
Caretaker coach for Black Leopards Football Club, Alan Clark said the players did not rise up to the occasion. “We were passive through the match. We did not turn up, we played in patches and it was a tough game and Polokwane City was a better side. They deserve all the three points and we have to improve if we want to stay up in the league.”
The loss sees Leopards on the 15th position league with meagre 20 points after 22 matches.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Black Leopards Football Club defender, Thabo Matlaba and Polokwane City Football Club, midfielder Mthokozisi Nene tussle for the ball.
Polokwane City Football Club captain, Jabu Maluleke, dribbles Black Leopards Football Club midfielder, Tshwarelo Bereng.
Polokwane City Football Club, midfielder Shalulani Phiri is chased by Black Leopards Football Club defenders, Thabo Matlaba and Khomotso Masia.
Andiswa Ndawonde defender for Black Leopards Football Club and Polokwane City Football Club striker, Charlton Mashumba chase the ball.
Thabo Matlaba, Black Leopards Football Club defender aims to strike the ball under the watchful eye of Polokwane City Football Clud, defender Thabiso Semenya.
Black Leopards Football Club striker, Mogakolodi Ngele (right) tries to run away with the ball as Polo­kwa­ne City Football Club midfielder, Mthoko­zisi Nene approaches.
Polokwane City Football Club goalkeeper, Mwenya Chibwe holds the ball tight on the ground after making a save.
Black Leopards Football Club caretaker coach, Alan Clark.
Clinton Larsen, head coach of Polokwane City Football Club.