It was a joyous evening at Capricorn High School last Wednesday when the best performing learners and athletes were acknowledged and rewarded for their determination and hard work during the institution’s 2019 annual speech-night and prize giving ceremony.
The school also used the auspicious occasion to announce its hostel prefects, representative council of learners (RCL), first prefects and captains of school for 2020. Parents and fellow learners could not contain their excitement and made their appreciation clear the awards recipients made their way to the stage.
The accolades came in the form of medallions, full academic colours, honours for school leadership and trophies for outstanding performances. Lethabo Shibambo was named as the President of the RCL and will be supported by her Vice-President, Tumelo Chepape. The first prefects were announced as Sagale Sodi, Shalom Marara, Msesenyane Makhongela and Marcus Motapa. The team of prefects will be led by Captains of School, Sagale and Msesenyane.
Lucas Chuene, principal of Capricorn High School.
As is customary the learners and audience received words of motivation from a local influential motivational speaker, Lethabo Ramokgopha, an alumnus of the school.
During her speech, Ramokgopha indicated that the recipients of the awards had conquered against all odds as the youth of today deals with a lot of challenges daily: “You have overcome a lot of societal ills. You are faced with a lot of challenges on a daily basis but yet you managed to excel with your academic work and extramural activities. Peer pressure is a lifetime challenge and as a result you must continue to be disciplined. Capricorn High School is a school for kings and queens and you should continue working hard to become the best,” she emphasised.
Ramokgopha urged parents and guardians to take it easy with their children as she reckoned that today’s generation was not easy to raise and understand. She further stated that elders should communicate with their children as often as possible to learn about their proud moments and their challenges. She further encouraged learners to listen to their educators as she said they were their guiding force to lead them to a destination they want to be at. Ramokgopha concluded by urging learners to continue doing a great job to become whatever they want to be in life.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Sagale Sodi and Msesenyane Makhongela, Captains of the School.
RCL President, Lethabo Shibambo and her deputy, Tumelo Chepape.
Captain of School House Hotel, Sebolelo Kgwete and his deputy, Gift Mponeng.
Captain of Southveld Hostel, Karabo Mashabele with her deputy Dineo Ramahlo.
School House Hostel prefects Thabo Dube and Tshwaane Mashatole.
Lethabo Shibambo, Mothoka Monyela and Moletla Makgamatha are recipients of Full Academic Colours.
Grade 8 Top Performers Gundo Mukwevho, Kgaogelo Malebati, Rotondwa Mathivha. Absent: Mikayla Sewlall, Tsheamo Maleka.
Cappies first prefects Sagale Sodi, Shalom Marara, Msesenyane Makhongela and Marcus Motapa.
Southveld Hostel prefects Keketso Kekana, Kholofelo Magongoa, Thel Malotane, Nomsa Maphondo, Sejabaledi Mapopnya, Matladi Mahlatji and Lehlogonolo Mokgobi.
Recipients of Honours for School Leadership and Silver Medallion for achieving 60+ points in exams Sagale Sodi, Mixo Khoza, Tshephiso Mokonyane, Mafihla Dihangwane, Thato Kgomo, Tsebo Sekole, Oriinga Maudu and Kamogelo Komape.
Msesenyane Makhongela, Phenyo Phiri, Khudu Mphahlele, Makgalake Madonsela, Matome Rakgoale, Thuto Chauke, Angela Latakgomo, Mmamutele Mothapo and Manthakene Talane are recipients of Half Academic Colours.
The Grade 11 Top Five: Sagale Sodi, Mafihla Dihangwane, Tsebo Sekole, Thato Kgomo and Mixo Khoza.
Grade 10 Best Performers Mosa Moganwa, Kelebogile Mokgoebo, Kamogelo Machete, Phuti Makgoka and Koketse Lebea.
Grade 9 Top Five achievers Shaun Thomas, Ntsako Mathebula, Kagiso Chuene, Ronell Mavhungu. Absent: Otshepeng Moanakoena.
Neo Tawane, Grade 11 Valedictorian.
Sagale Sodi with the Sanliikho Trophy for most the outstanding Physical Science learner and Edgars Trophy for most outstanding academic learner in Grade 11.
The Paul Adams Memorial Trophy goes to Tsebo Sekole for best all round achievement in Grade 11.
The Paul Adams Memorial Trophy goes to Tsebo Sekole for best all round achievement in Grade 11.