Day two of payments of social grants by the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) and the South African Post Office (Sapo) has seen eight Limpopo MECs deployed across the five districts to ensure a smooth process of grant payments to beneficiaries.
It was learnt that payment of social grants went without any major hiccups at the Sapo paypoints yesterday (Monday) and the Executive Council (Exco) has embarked on yet another mission today to ensure smooth payments on grants.
According to Department of Social Development spokesperson Witness Tiva, long queues were, however, experienced with unsuccessful social distancing being observed at most retail stores where people flocked in their numbers to get their grants and buy groceries. He indicated that the department has set aside yesterday and today for grant payments to older persons and people living with disabilities as part of measures that are put in place to prevent the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19) in the expected long queues.
Social Development MEC Nkakareng Rakgoale, who started her second day of monitoring at Nkowa-Nkowa and Kgapane this morning has reportedly urged recipients to excercise patience and also observe social distancing while queuing for their grants.
She was quoted to have said Sassa and Sapo officials are determined to ensure that they pay out the grants even beyond today.
It was further reported that Premier Stan Mathabatha was expected to visit Philadelphia Hospital this afternoon. According to his spokesperson Kenny Mathivha, this is a convergence point for subsequent visit to other surrounding areas as part of ongoing monitoring programme of government in respect of Covid-19 campaign. Mathivha outlined the areas to be visited as Dennilton Taxi Rank, Elansdoorin Shopping Complex, Leufontein Pension payout point, Mokganyaka Pension Payout Point and Motetema and Tafelkop Pension payout points.
He added that Mathabatha will be accompanied by MECs Dickson Masemola for Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure, Thabo Mokone for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism, Mavhungu Lerule-Makhanya for Transport and Community Safety, Phophi Ramathuba for Health and Basikopo Makamu for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, as well as the Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba and members of the South African National Defence Force.
Story: Endy Senyatsi