With COVID-19 literally on everyone’s lips, loaded trollies and empty shelves are a common sight in some shops only three days after the announcement of a National State of Disaster by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday evening.
Hand sanitisers flew off the shelves and at some shops, only non-alcohol based varieties were available on Monday. In January, protective masks were already out of stock country-wide, it was learnt locally.
The last stocks of plastic gloves were sold out at a chain store in Cycad Shopping Centre on Sunday even before the announcement of the State of Disaster.
Consumers that were fearful of the possibility of an embargo on movement that may confine them to their homes, flooded shops to buy items like toilet paper, cereals, tinned food, bread, flour and basic medicines and toiletries.
Trolley wipes are provided to customers of a business in Welgelegen.
Shopkeepers in the city indicated that they have stock on order but were concerned about the future because deliveries may be affected. “Shops have increased their orders to cope with the demand and it may force suppliers also to limit quantities to shops. This is in addition to the possibility that suppliers’ staff capacity to provide merchandise through their supply chains that starts at the producers, may be impaired,” a shopkeeper reckoned.
An employee of a cell phone retailer said that he has not detected any increase in business since the announcement of the State of Disaster and attributed it to the fact that most of his clients are conducting their business online. “We may, however, experience challenges if deliveries of our merchandise are affected,” he said.
A manager of a butchery and convenience store in Welge­legen said that it was business as usual at this outlet and that they had enough stock on hand. “We provide sanitisers and trolley wipes at the entrance to the business and advise our customers to make use of it for their own safety and that of other customers,” she said.
Story: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com