The Grade 7 learners at Laerskool Ivy Park were afforded an opportunity to learn more about the importance of planting a small-leaved succulent plant, the Spekboom, during an Eco talk at the institution on Friday.
When rendering the lesson, Helena du Plessis, a lecturer at the University of Limpopo’s Department of Biodiversity indicated that the Spekboom was one of the best plants to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere that helps in prevention of global warming. Information provided by her highlighted that the plant binds the soil to prevent soil erosion and is used in veld restoration projects. It was reported that the plant is an important food source for animals such as elephants, black rhinos, kudu and domestic goats. Du Plessis stated that the leaves are edible with a slightly lemon taste that can be eaten as such or used in salads.
It was learnt that the Spekboom is a proudly indigenous South African plant that is mostly in the Eastern Cape but also found in Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga. She urged families to consider planting Spekboom in their gardens as she mentioned that they are water-wise. Du Plessis concluded by saying this was the first Eco talk but highlighted that they were planning to host the lessons in various schools in the city and surrounds.
Mariette Pretorius stressed that they wanted to raise awareness about the plant because it is good for the environment. She said this was their first attempt and they were happy with the response from learners. She indicated that residents should follow #Spekboomchallenge on Twitter to learn more about the plant.
Principal William Opperman said the school supports the challenge and reiterated that the lesson was fruitful and they would extend it to parents. He challenged other schools to consider the lessons and plant as many Spekboom as possible. All the participating learners were given a plant each and notes to help them understand the Spekboom better.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
A group of people who support the Spekboom challenge are in front Nhlalala Shinwana (deputy head boy), Fiya Lekganyane (deputy head girl) Machisa Chauke (head boy) and Nkateko Moyana (head girl) while at the back are Ward 22 committee member Cois Armer, Mariette Pretorius, lecturer Helena du Plessis and principal William Opperman.
Learners attend the Eco talk to learn more about the Spekboom (Portulacaria afra) and its value for the environment .