Mall of the North (MoN) values the health and safety of the community and for as long as it is prudent and permissible, Mall of the North remains open and operational so that retailers can serve the community during this unprecedented time.
In a press statement management indicated that the mall continues to support the shopper community by ensuring that critical products and services are available to those who need them.
The well-being of tenants, shoppers and employees are of paramount importance and to that effect management is closely monitoring the development of the Covid-19 situation and has taken the necessary precautionary measures in accordance with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the relevant South African and local health authorities. Mall of the North will stay abreast of all new developments to keep the shopper community informed. They will always adhere to any new regulations prescribed by National Government.
Providing a safe environment, as they remain open, is their first priority. They have taken heed of all recommended precautions and best practise. The cleaning of the mall’s common areas is effected more regularly and rigorously, using the prescribed alcohol-based disinfectants. Extra hand-sanitiser stations have been added throughout the mall.
Over and above these added safety measures, management urges shoppers to follow the prescribed hygiene guidelines such as washing your hands thoroughly and regularly, avoiding physical contact such as shaking hands, refraining from touching your face, coughing/sneezing into your elbow, to name but a few. Educational notices are posted in all our ablution facilities in the mall.
Stay informed – in South Africa the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (http://www.nicd.ac.za/) provides regular updates on the Covid-19 situation in the country or via The Department of Health’s Support WhatsApp on 060 012 3456. Store the number on your phone and send a WhatsApp saying “Hi” to activate.
If you display signs or symptoms of the virus, call the Covid-19 Hotline on 0800 029 999.