While many members of society believe the nationwide lockdown of 21 days announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa is one of the best possible solutions to combat Covid-19, some are of the opinion that it has adversely and severely affected business, the academic sphere, sport and general lives of citizens.
As of Monday the country recorded more than 1 000 confirmed cases of Covid-19, the majority of cases reportedly being persons aged between 30 and 60 years old.
Grace Sibara, Chairperson of Limpopo Women in Tourism said the spread of the virus forced closure of most tourism establishments in the province. “The virus is stressing everyone. Some establishments closed before the lockdown because bookings and events were cancelled. We are all stressed because we rely on events and the bookings for revenue.”
She also stated that it would be difficult for most of the tourism establishment owners to pay their employees. “We are not generating income and that is scary. We are hoping that the solidarity fund from Government will help us in this regard. Most owners have applied for the assistance from the fund and we don’t know how long it will take for Government to settle those applications,” Sibara said.
She also appealed to the community to adhere to the rules and regulations of the lockdown in order to curb the spread of the virus. “We are also pleading with the community to stay at their homes, sanitise and wash their hands regularly.”
Lesiba Seshoka from Ga-Nkoana village in the Sekhukhune area said the lockdown is a step in a right direction. “Such intervention is needed. We have never been in this kind of situation before and at this stage the lockdown has been the right decision. The 21 days will give citizens time for retrospection, rebooting and to thinking about of life beyond this Covid-19 era.”
Koketso Maesela from Ga-Mathabatha said the lockdown would test the country’s ability to deal with disaster. “This is a huge test for country. The question is, will the police and army cope during the 21 days. Will they be able to deal with those that don’t want to comply. I don’t know if the lockdown is the solution because we are a country confronted with so many challenges such as poverty, inequality, unemployment and service delivery issues. The demands of the lockdown might not be conducive or practical for an ordinary person facing these challenges,” Maesela stated.
Story: Herbert Rachuene