While Police made a major breakthrough in connection with the alleged murder and mutilation of a 11-year-old girl’s body last Thursday by arresting a 34-year-old suspect in the case, the mangled body of a woman’s was found in a shallow grave in the Ritavi area on Friday.
The incident saw Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba establishing a dedicated task team comprising of the detectives and members of the Crime Intelligence Unit to track down the suspect(s) involved in the brutal killing.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe indicated that the 31-year-old woman was allegedly last seen on 17 March.
Following her disappearance community members mobilised at the deceased’s boyfriend’s house demanding answers about the woman’s whereabouts. The Police were called to the area and investigations and the search for the woman were immediately launched until she was found in a shallow grave at Petanenge village with some body parts missing on Friday, according to Ngoepe.
The motive behind the incident is still unknown and Police are requesting Dennis Maswanganyi to report to the Ritavi Police Station to assist with investigations.
Anyone with information is requested to contact investigating officer Leonard Maswanganyi on 083 671 3738.
Meanwhile, a 34-year-old suspect was expected to appear in the Giyani Magistrate’s Court early this week in connection with the alleged murder and mutilation of an 11-year-old girl whose body was found in the Nsami Dam last Tuesday.
Ngoepe indicated that the girl from Dengeza (A) outside Giyani allegedly left her parental home last Sunday and never returned. She was reported missing the following day and a search was immediately conducted without any success, until the discovery was made on Tuesday. When Police arrived on the scene her remains were retrieved from the dam and the discovery made that some body parts were missing.
A task team was established who followed up on all possible leads until they secured an arrest.
The motive for the murder is still being investigated but ritual killing cannot be ruled out, according to Ngoepe.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com