Escalated levels of incessant noise pollution allegedly caused by varying manufacturing activities concentrated on private properties along Hauptfleisch Street in Flora Park are reportedly increasingly turning the neighbourhood into a living nightmare.
Thus far the urgency of the matter has seemingly slipped the attention of Polokwane Municipality, as the discontent on the part of residents escalates while the issue remains unresolved. It has reached a point where property owners are reportedly considering selling their homes to escape a nuisance which is referred to as intolerable.
After three previous stories on alleged illegal land use and having been alerted to suspicions of small-scale production happening in the area, Polokwane Observer paid the neighbourhood yet another visit on Monday and Tuesday. It was discovered that the evidently active business portals in existence within little more than a block apart include a road sign producer, a glass and aluminium frame manufacturer, what appears to be a scrapyard-cum-motor repair shop, a tavern and a spaza shop.
Faced by the current state of affairs, an irate home owner stressed the unfairness of the situation of having to be subjected to disturbing noise pollution at unacceptably high levels throughout the day and even on weekends that have led to the consideration to sell the property to escape individuals not adhering to the by-laws of the city.
In terms of the municipal laws that regulate operations of business with low impact on a residential area, the majority of such concerns in operation in Hauptfleisch Street is seemingly not allowed to operate in their current state.
The latest complaints brought to Polo­kwa­ne Observer’s attention entailed the manufacturing of glass and aluminium frames as well as road signs on two adjacent properties. According to information the producer of aluminium frames was apparently expanding towards the back of the yard, in contradiction to what Polokwane Observer was told when knocking on the door on Monday morning. It was established that the owner of the business was in Gauteng for business, but that operations on the premises were ceased and would be moving elsewhere after having received letters from Polokwane Municipality earlier this year. A company representative stated that they manufactured the frames on site, which was also the case with a second business advertised alongside the same glass and aluminium manufacturing concern. She denied that they operated on weekends, as was being alleged.
The glass and aluminium frame manufacturer claimed on Tuesday that he has ceased all operations on the premises and is currently relocating to an industrial site. Later in the day, a follow-up visit to the premises confirmed that there were no activities taking place.
Next door, where Polokwane Observer was informed by a partner in the road sign manufacturing business that no production was occurring on the property, the noise of what seemed to be an appliance to the likes of an industrial grinder emanated from the garage adjacent to the residence. Upon a question as to what caused the sound in an otherwise quiet environment, he alluded to someone welding a bedpost on the premises. At the time of going to press information was received that the noise persisted unabated.
He said the operation that supplied road signs was expected to move to a warehouse along the N1 highway at the end of the month.
According to him they had never received any correspondence from Polokwane Municipality with regards to contravention of the city’s by-laws.
When taking the bend towards Euphorbia Street a property seemingly serving as car repair or maintenance yard and storage facility for used vehicle parts raised further suspicions about requirements for trading, as did a tavern down the road and a spaza shop on the next corner.
Communications and Marketing Manager of Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo said that the municipality was aware of the complaints and that the Spatial Planning Unit has been engaged to visit the area to determine whether there are any transgressions of legislation. “If found, a series of notices will be issued in an attempt to coerce the operators to end the illegal activities and if there is no success, legal steps will be taken. From there the process is in the hands of the courts,” Mothapo said and reiterated that due process had to be followed and that it was a time consuming process.
Story: Editorial team
A tavern in Euphorbia Street in the otherwise quiet neighbourhood of Flora Park.