ADVERTORIAL
Being in business in the city only from August last year, but with a combined experience of more than 21 years, The Brand Lab has already positioned itself foremost in the branding industry, offering the widest range of branding related goods and services.
In keeping up with the latest trends and technology, The Brand Lab invested in the most advanced channel letter fabrication machine yet and has in doing so, taken the lead in the 3D LED signage manufacturing, says owner Johan Bezuidenhout. The machine is used to manufacture 3D fabricated channel letters and logos, aluminium profile strips, flat coil media or aluminium trim cap illuminated with LEDs.
Another addition to The Brand Lab’s equipment is a 3,2m Titan Jet large format printer that makes it possible to print on wallpaper, vinyl, PVC banners, PVC mesh, stickers, contra vision, canvas, vehicle wraps and sign boards and puts this business ahead of its competitors, providing the capacity to even print truck tarpaulins and ground sheets.
To ensure that no job will be a challenge, The Brand Lab employs a CNC router with a bed of 2m x 1,5m that can cut up to 100mm deep into wood, perspex, PVC, aluminium and non-ferrous metals and is complementary to their laser cutter/engraver. Their LEF20 UV printer can print on bottles, key holders, name plates, mouse pads, tiles, golf balls and even pens and has opened up a host of creative possibilities.
High quality embroidery on aprons, caps, T-shirts and shorts is no challenge and is done in-house, while the copy shop offers services that include printing of brochures, newsletters, business cards, flyers and posters.
The Brand Lab’s in-house specialists are available to offer creative signage ideas and can attend to all aspects of sign writing from initial consultation and design, through to manufacture, installation and aftercare.
“Our main objective is to enhance customer satisfaction by using the latest laser cutting technology and providing precision quality and outstanding service. We service customers in the fields of fabrication, automotive, marine, decor, signage and shop fitting and set the quality benchmark,” says Bezuidenhout.
The Brand Lab also runs a competition with closing date on 31 March and R5 000’s worth of signage as the grand prize. Forward your name and mobile number as well as the answer to the question: “What is the latest addition to The Brand Lab’s services” to competition.tbl@gmail.com. A clue to the answer as well as the terms and conditions of the competition may be found on the website www.thebrandlabsa.com.
The Brand Lab is situated at Plot 15, Dalmada and they may be contacted on 015 065 0846 or hello@thebrandlabsa.co.za.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
Team Brand Lab members Deon Coetzee, Angela Nell, Emily MacDonald, Charlotte Nel and Moné van Niekerk.
Thuso Manyuwa, Jimmy Mokgola and Deon Coetzee operate the 3,2 m large format printer.
The Brand Lab’s light delivery vehicles showcase the possibilities of colourful branding.