Crime and drug abuse have been pointed out as major concerns by residents of Seshego since the beginning of the year and were once again highlighted when Police and members of Seshego Crime Fighters clamped down on two schools in the township on Monday when a learner was reportedly found in possession of a firearm and 20 others tested positive for drugs.
According to a source the Police and members of the Seshego Crime Fighters visited Masedibu High School in Zone 2 where 20 learners tested positive for drugs.
When the operations continued to Kgaiso High School in Zone 3 a learner was reportedly found to be in possession of a firearm.
The source indicated that a large percentage of crime in Seshego are committed by youngsters and the operation confirmed the problem of drug abuse among children, keeping in mind that drugs and alcohol are considered one of the biggest crime contributors.
At the time of going to print Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo had failed to respond to numerous inquiries about the raids and the outcome thereof.
Meanwhile, Police in Polokwane embarked on a clean-up operation in Bendor last week where job seekers on street corners were profiled, a suspect arrested for being in possession of a dangerous weapon and drunken drivers and prostitutes apprehended.
According to information Police were alerted to a suspected gang of housebreakers operating in the area. Two simultaneously reported incidents were followed up and Police arrested a suspect at Graceland while another was caught breaking into a house a Bendor Gables but managed to evade arrest.
The arrested suspect had allegedly stabbed a security guard before breaking into a house and was reportedly found with a knife and car breaking equipment in his possession.
The same Police arrested 19 suspects for smoking dagga in public. The following day Police continued with their operation and arrested another 25 suspects for the same offence and one for possession of a knife and alleged car remote jammer. Eleven prostitutes were also arrested.
On Friday Police focussed on drunken drivers and arrested 22 who tested positive for driving under the influence of alcohol. Another 11 prostitutes were also brought to book.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
One of the suspects arrested for being in possession of a dangerous weapon.
The suspect that was caught allegedly breaking into a house in Bendor.