Simultaneous law enforcement operations conducted across the province on the weekend resulted in the arrest of 801 suspects on various charges.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said the operations were conducted by members of the Crime Prevention Unit, Crime Intelligence Unit, Public Order Policing Unit (Pops), Tactical Response Team (TRT) and detectives by embarking on patrols, stop and searches, roadblocks and tracing of wanted suspects.
He added that the persons who were apprehended are aged between 21 and 49 years and face charges varying from burglary, public drinking and contravention of the Liquor Act to possession of suspected stolen property, assault, armed robbery as well as business robbery.
Dagga plants were also confiscated during the operation.
A large number of goods were confiscated in the process. These include 10 cell phones, 18 items of cell phone accessories, a DVD player, two sound systems, two laptops, 77 compact discs, eight speakers, shoes, screwdrivers, scissors, school bags, gambling cards, canisters of pepper spray, R12 900 in cash, 36 knives, keys, ID books, house breaking equipment, 249 packages of groceries, generators, gas bottles, dagga plants, four firearms and 315 rounds of ammunition, 4 041 cigarettes, 25 batteries, bank cards, 6 000 litres of liquor and three motor vehicles.
A total of 1 142 fines were issued for various contraventions including the Liquor Act.
Ngoepe highlighted some of the events and indicated that a 32- and a 40-year-old suspect were arrested in Botlokwa after being found in possession of 23 tower batteries valued at more than R200 000.
Meanwhile, Police confiscated illicit cigarettes following the recovery of an abandoned vehicle at the Magau gravel road next to the railway line in Louis Trichardt.
It is alleged that the Police at Tshilwavhusiku were tipped off about a vehicle carrying the illicit goods and immediately followed up on the information until the vehicle was spotted.
The Police apparently chased the suspects but could not manage to stop but later found their abandoned vehicle.
An estimated 2 490 cartons of illicit cigarettes valued at approximately R600 000 were found in the vehicle.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com