Cases of corruption in local government amounting to R1,7 billion have been investigated by the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) in the recent past and a worrying factor is that 30 of the 142 cases originate from Limpopo.
Freedom Front Plus spokesperson on Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Michal Groenewald said in a media release that this was revealed during a briefing of the SIU to the Portfolio Committee on Cogta on Tuesday. “The report once again highlighted the enormous extent of state capture and corruption in local government,” Groenewald said and added that the corruption investigations conducted in various municipalities across the country have already brought to light irregularities amounting to more than R1,7 billion.
“According to the briefing, Gauteng (70 cases), the Eastern Cape (42 cases) and Limpopo (30 cases) are the three provinces where the most investigations were conducted. It is noteworthy that no progress was made in the Free State and progress was recorded in only four cases in the North West. This is significant seen in light of the fact that the municipalities in these provinces have been brought to their knees by the fraud and corruption that were seemingly tolerated under the leadership of Ace Magashule and Supra Mahumapelo respectively,” Groenewald reckoned.
“The fact that there has been a remarkable increase in investigations into corruption since 2017 and that cases are brought before the court offers a ray of hope and this is primarily due to improved formal cooperation between the SIU, the police, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the Asset Forfeiture Unit,” Groenewald added.
According to Groenewald, the FF Plus proposed in the Portfolio Committee meeting that it should be a priority to include the Auditor-General (AG), with his newly expanded powers, in the cooperative agreement. “The AG already has extensive data of the financial irregularities at municipalities across the country at his disposal,” Groenewald said and suggested that the data should be used to identify criminal practices and speed up investigations. “For example, the FF Plus lodged a formal complaint against the Matlosana Municipality in the North West regarding irregularities that came to light in an audit report but were not even mentioned in the briefing by the various functionaries,” Groenewald remarked.
Democratic Alliance (DA) Shadow Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Haniff Hoosen said in a media release that the DA was appalled by the brazen theft of public money in local governments and called on more convictions and harsh punishment of those who steal from the public.
He referred to the report presented to the Portfolio Committee and said that it was revealed that of the 32 corruption investigations which the SIU have concluded since 2002, there have only been 13 convictions secured and R55 million has been recovered. “While the DA welcomes the action that has been taken thus far, 13 convictions and R55 million in recovered assets in 18 years are but a drop in the ocean compared to the more than R1.4 billion that has been looted,” the DA says.
“The DA, therefore, calls on the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) to up its game in seizing assets from individuals with glaring evidence of wrongdoing levelled against them related to local government corruption. All too often funds disappear before these cases end up in court. Corruption in local government is clearly a scourge that must be wiped out if we want to stand any chance of stabilising and improving services to all South Africans,” the statement ends.
Spokesperson for the Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, Mothupa Selomo could not be reached on his mobile phone at time of going to print.
Story: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com