Senior soccer teams from ten different secondary schools in Madiba Park and Seshego are gearing up for the first annual Boy Mamabolo High Schools Games that will be hosted at Seshego stadium on 15 March.
During the official launch of the tournament at Masedibu High School last Thursday, it was revealed that teams will contest for a trophy and cash prizes. Schools set to participate are Masedibu High School, Luthuli Park Combined School, Khaiso High School, Millennium Combined School, Dr AMS Makunyane Secondary School, ME Makgato Secondary School, Moruleng High School, Peter Nchabeleng Secondary School, Bokamoso Secondary School and Mohlakaneng High School.
The challenge will be hosted by African National Congress Member of Parliament, Boy Mamabolo and aims to curb the scourge of crime in Seshego and surrounds by taking youth away from the streets. Mamabolo stated that he established the non-political Boy Mamabolo Foundation with a vision of fighting criminal activities through sport. He reckoned there were fewer incidence of crime in communities where youth are positively occupied, hence the initiative.
He emphasised that although the first edition of the tournament will only cater for soccer teams, other sporting codes would be introduced when he hosts the Boy Mamabolo Games in August: “I am part of a Portfolio Committee on Sport in Parliament and we are mandated to host sporting activities. We are planning to host the games as many times as possible throughout the year to unearth sporting talent and keep children busy. The first edition is a one day challenge but next year we are planning to make it more of a league so that teams can play almost every week,” Mamabolo explained.
He went on to outline that the winning team will walk away with a trophy and R15 000 while the runners-up claim R10 000 and the other eight participating teams R2 000 each. All the teams will battle it out wearing new soccer kits with their school colours, he said and reiterated that there will also be individual prizes. The Man of the Match in the finals will receive the Mgababa Raphahlela award, the Player of the Tournament will get the Ria Ledwaba award while the Best Netball Player is set to receive the Cecilia Molekwane award when the code is introduced to the tournament in August, Mamabolo concluded.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Lebowa Funerals Managing Director William Tema and Boy Mamabolo with the Chairman’s Award named after the founder of the funeral parlour, Jacky Tema.
Netball South Africa President Cecilia Mole­kwa­ne receives a trophy named after her that will be given to netball Player of the Tourney. She is with tournament Chairperson Boy Mamabolo.
South African Football Association Vice-President Ria Ledwaba’s son Harry, shows off an award named after his mother that will be given to the Player of the Tournament.
A proud moment for Mgababa Raphahlela as the Man of the Match award is named after him. He is congratulated by Boy Mamabolo.