The ensuing spat that erupted between Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Commander-in-Chief Julius Malema and African National Congress (ANC) Parliamentarian Boy Mamabolo on an evening of frenzied emotional display marking the President’s State of the Nation Address a fortnight ago, was given a twist with an urgent R2 million defamation-related suit serving before the High Court in Polokwane yesterday (Wednesday).
Late last month the country looked on as President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address got interrupted and subsequent remarks led to verbal jousting between the two erstwhile friends from Seshego after Mamabolo reportedly alleged that Malema abused his wife, Mantoa Matlala.
It was set out in court documents pertaining to the application on behalf of Malema and Matlala that the matter was being brought for an order to declare Mamabolo’s statements defamatory, that his making of the statements was unlawful, that he be ordered to publicly apologise for his statement, that the apology be published via his social media accounts and sent to a particular mainstream publication, both within 24 hours of granting of the order.
The applicants further sought to have the respondent interdicted from publishing any further statement that implied that Malema in particular engaged in conduct elaborated on in the founding affidavit and that Mamabolo be ordered to pay damages of R1 million to each of the applicants as well as costs.
At the time of going to press proceedings were still ongoing.
Story: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com
ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
UPDATE: Boy Mamabolo apologises to EFF leader
African National Congress parliamentarian, Boy Mamabolo has apologised to Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Commander-in-Chief Julius Malema and his wife, Mantoa Matlala for ‘falsely’ accusing Malema during last month’s State of the Nation Address (Sona) of abusing his wife.
It was learnt that Mamabolo repeated the accusations during an interview with a national newspaper and again when he directed a question to Malema during the Sona debate.
The Limpopo High Court was yesterday (Wednesday) requested to order that Mamabolo should pay the legal costs of Malema’s lawsuit application and apologise on social media within 24 hours. The legal representatives of the two parties, however, reached a settlement agreement before they could make their submissions on the motion brought before the court.
ANC parliamentarian Boy Mamabolo in court.
The court proceedings commenced just after 10:30 with Mamabolo’s application for condonation for late filing of the answering papers which was later rejected by acting judge Thogomelane Tshidada. This was followed by a settlement agreement that was reached by Malema’s lawyer Tembeka Ngcukaitobi and Mamambolo’s lawyer Malesela Phukubje during a short break.
An apology posted on Mamabolo’s social media page reads: “I would like to offer my sincere and unreserved apology to Mr and Mrs Malema for the unfortunate comments I made during the State of the Nation Address on the 13th February 2020. I repeated these harmful comments in the media and on the occasion of the SONA debate on 18th February 2020. It was indeed uncalled for. No one should falsely accuse anyone or even joke about Gender-Based Violence. I understand that this put not only you in harm but also your children. I apologise and commit to never repeat these comments anywhere again. Please accept my apology [sic].”
After court proceedings EFF Provincial Leader Jossey Buthane indicated that as the party they were pleased that Mamabolo had agreed and accepted that he was a pathetic liar and would apologise. He further stressed that the issue must not end there as he reckoned that the Speaker of Parliament should take action against Mamabolo because Malema’s children were affected by the fact that someone lied about their parents. These children were wrongfully emotionally tortured by a liar and an immature person who regards himself as a member of parliament, Buthane alleged.
He concluded by saying: “He must not apologise for the purpose of television but the apology must be about building a society that is free from lying and using immature politics in parliament to score points and impress the master. It shouldn’t be a cosmetic apology.”
Story/photo: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za