Several taxis being impounded after drivers were discovered operating illegally marked the first day of the national lockdown in Limpopo yesterday (Friday).
Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula yesterday indicated that 55 people were arrested nationally of which ten arrests were made in Limpopo.
Kenny Mathivha, spokesperson for Premier Stan Mathabatha, highlighted some of the events in a press statement saying that Limpopo Government has intercepted about five taxis.
Three Gauteng-registered taxis were intercepted at Modimolle for driving without operating licenses, among which a 16-seater carrying 20 people. He added that a 22-seater carrying 27 people was also intercepted.
Meanwhile, a sedan driver with a Department of Health permit was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol.
On the eve of the lockdown Mathabatha and Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba conducted a roadblock to trace and monitor those entering the province from Gauteng and elsewhere. Thousands of commuters, some in buses, others in private vehicles and taxis were monitored and most were tested in a mobile laboratory at Mantsole Traffic Centre on the N1 and R101, according to Mathivha.
Transport and Community Safety MEC Mavhungu Luruli Ramakhanya and Ramathuba have been monitoring the first day of lockdown and realised people went on as normal.
Mathivha indicated that reports from all over Limpopo have shown that from Musina to Lephalale, from Giyani to Letaba, Thohoyandou to Malamulele that citizens thronged to shopping malls without adhering to social distancing.
Ramakhanya said that Police at malls continued to monitor the situation. She assured Limpopo that Police will continue to make sure lockdown regulations are adhered
Mathabatha has displayed displeasure in the way people behaved. With the number of infections having reached almost 1 200 in South Africa, Mathabatha said the situation has reached catastrophic proportions.
“I wish to call on Limpopo that the Police and the army may not be everywhere, and that we should be responsible by staying indoors. Where Police and the army will find you disobeying the lockdown rules, the Police will and should arrest you,” Mathabatha was quoted saying.
A Special Executive Council meeting is expected to be held next week to evaluate and provide updates on the lockdown process in the province.
Story: RC Myburgh