Baroka Football Club booked a spot in the Nedbank Cup semi-finals after eliminating their nemesis Black Leopards Football Club during the quarter-final of the tournament at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday.
An own goal from Togolese defender Joseph Douhadji gave Baroka a 1-0 victory over Lidoda duvha in the second half of the match.
It will be the second time the Ga-Mphahlele outfit reaches the semi-finals of the Cup having also achieved the milestone in 2011.
Alan Clark, Caretaker Coach of the Black Leopards Football Club during the post match interviews.
Dylan Kerr, Head Coach of Baroka Football Club.
They need to defeat Bloemfontein Celtic Football Club in their semi-final match scheduled for Peter Mokaba Stadium next month in order to debut in final of the tournament.
Baroka’s head coach, Dylan Kerr said they have the ability to win the Nedbank Cup and pocket a cool R7 million.
“It was not easy to reach the semi-finals. We played tough matches but the team showed great character. I hope my Chairman and the supporters are happy. We work hard in training, we analyse the videos of our opponents before matches. We are just happy that everything to fruits of our labour,” Kerr said.
Alan Clark, caretaker coach of the Black Leopards Football Club said they would have loved to proceed to the next round of the tournament but Baroka stood in the way. “We had a good run until today. We wanted to advance to the next stage but it was not to be. We wish Baroka all the best,” Clark said.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Tshediso Patjie, midfielder for Baroka Football Club takes two Black Leopards Football Club defenders, Thabo Matlaba and Khuliso Mudau during their Nedbank Cup semi-finals at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday.
Joseph Douhadji, defender for Black Leopards Football Club tussle for the ball with Nhlanhla Magaga, striker for Baroka Football Club.
Lifa Hlongwane, striker for Baroka Football Club aims to dribble past Bonginkosi Makume,defender for Baroka Football Club.