Curro Holdings has been made aware that the parents of one of Curro Heuwelkruin’s Grade 10 learners were in close contact with the first person in Limpopo who tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in both the learner and the parents being tested for the virus and going into self-isolation earlier this week.
As a precautionary measure Heuwelkruin has advised all parents of the Grade 10 class to follow a stringent protocol: all learners and teachers who had contact with the learner should go into self-isolation until the results of the tests are known. If the learner tests positive, learners from the Grade 10 class must be in self-isolation for at least two weeks. If any of the symptoms are experienced, a doctor should be consulted immediately and the learner must be tested, with Curro being notified if the results test positive.
Public Relations and Media Manager Lara Rothwell in a statement issued earlier today (Wednesday) on behalf of Curro Holdings indicated that the result of the tests would be available within the next two days.
“Curro assures that the safety of their learners and staff remains their utmost priority as they continue to monitor the situation. The group is also continuing to keep abreast of all relevant news sources and alerts issued by the Department of Health as well as the Department of Education. The group has implemented stringent hygiene and health safety measures across all their schools to work towards curbing any possible transmission.
“It is advisable that all Curro learners and staff remain sensible and safe during this period while monitoring their health accordingly. Proper sanitation should be practiced at all times. Curro has partnered with medical practitioner, Schalk Burger for regular health and safety tips for the Curro family.”
Further insights, reliable and credible information on Covid-19 can be obtained from the WHO website and social media pages, the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) website and social media pages and the Department of Health website and social media pages.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com