September has become synonymous with spring season, and Arbor Day, a day for planting trees. But how did this day originate? Why should we celebrate and participate in this event? And lastly, how do we celebrate it in South Africa?
Science Education Manager at the University of Limpopo, Prof Martin Potgieter shared his views on this interesting topic.
“According to various sources, Arbor Day which literally translates to “tree” day is a day that celebrates the planting, upkeep and preservation of trees.”
In most countries this event is celebrated as an official calendared holiday. Due to differences in climate and suitable planting seasons being at different times in the northern and southern hemisphere, the day is celebrated around the globe in various months of the year. In South Africa, it is the first week of September, though astrologically August is the first month of spring, according to Potgieter.
“The question can be asked as to the importance of Arbor Day. This day is a way in which humans give back to nature, replenishing its resources. This is important seeing that we consume more resources than the earth can produce,” Potgieter reckons.
According to Potgieter, the most common way people celebrate Arbor Day is to get together in groups to plant trees, thus a great social event. “Arbor Day was first proposed in 1872 by J. Sterling Morton, an American journalist and politician. Morton first proposed a tree-planting holiday to be called “Arbor Day” at a meeting of the State Board of Agriculture in the United States of America. The date was set for April 10, 1872. Prizes were offered to counties and individuals for planting the largest number of trees on that day,” he adds.
The Department of Forestry, as the custodian of forestry in South Africa, is responsible for the campaign. This day was celebrated from 1945 until 2000 in South Africa. After that, the national government extended it to National Arbor Week, which lasts annually from 1 to 7 September. Two trees, one common and one rare, are highlighted during this week to increase public awareness of indigenous trees, while various “greening” activities are undertaken by schools, businesses and other organisations.
“September is also Heritage Month and as we celebrate Arbor Week, thus the focus is also to highlight the country’s champion trees which include some of the oldest, largest and culturally significant trees. These include the Sophia Town Oak Tree and the Sagole Baobab Tree in Limpopo, which are part of our heritage. Arbor Week is an opportune time to call on all South Africans to plant indigenous trees,” Potgieter said.
Story: Barry Viljoen