A shortage of police vehicles that apparently led to the police’s late response and arrival on the murder scene of Jakkie Grobler (80) at Die Koraal retirement village on Monday, has caused concern among the DA.
The party’s Provincial Leader, Jacques Smalle confirmed on Tuesday that the party will demand an explanation for the circumstances which led to the long wait.
“Koraal’s management called 10111 at approximately 11:20 when the caller was informed that there is apparently
no vehicle available to attend to the matter.
After midday a call was made to a high profile cop at the provincial police office which resulted in members in blue pitching up at the scene after 13:00,” Smalle said.
He expressed his dismay by saying that Die Koraal hosts a vulnerable community whose residents are soft targets to criminals.
“This makes it even more important for the police to act swiftly when they receive a distress call. It is a shame that one first has to make a call to high profile personnel before any response from those on the ground is received.”
Provincial Police Communications Head, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the complaint will receive the necessary attention.
The shocking news of Grobler’s death came a mere two weeks after the brutal killing of businesswoman Lizette Deacon and her mother Hettie in Welgelegen.
Mojapelo said a manhunt for the suspect(s) responsible for Grobler’s death has since been launched.
Grobler’s body was discovered at around 11:00 and early reports showed that she had been beaten with a blunt object. Her laptop and cellphone were also stolen, according to Mojapelo.
The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees of Die Koraal, Anton Hanekom said that the residents are shocked and saddened by the death of long-time resident, Jakkie.
“The police is busy with their investigation and forensic results are awaited. It has been established that no breach of the security at Die Koraal took place and no forced entry was obtained to the deceased’s apartment,” Hanekom said and added that the management of Die Koraal is doing all in its power to maintain the high level of security at the institution and to ensure the safety of residents.
A memorial service will be held at the hall of Die Koraal on Wednesday at 11:00, Hanekom confirmed Grobler’s friend for the past seven years, Frans du Rand is devastated by the murder. He said that Grobler celebrated her 80th birthday with friends and family on 18 September.
“During the celebration she shared her plans of reaching the age of 120. She was a strong woman and did all
her household tasks herself,” he said.
He remembers how he walked her home on Sunday evening only to receive the terrible news the following  day. She was still wearing the same clothes, according to Du Rand.