The 2018/19 Noordelikes Rugby Player of the Year, Koning Janse van Rensburg said they would love to see the province owning a rugby franchise club that will as compete against other established franchises in the country, as well as the biggest global rugby competitions.
Van Rensburg said there are many business people in the province who can raise money and ensure that the franchise becomes a reality.
The former first team player of Tom Naudé Technical High School said they can’t be outshone by rugby franchises from Kwa-Zulu Natal, Eastern Cape, Free State, Western Cape and Gauteng. “We are the only province that does not have a rugby team competing in the high echelons.We want a club that can compete in Currie Cup and Super Rugby. We have an abundance of talent in the province, and we do have facilities and I am sure businesses won’t be reluctant to come on board.”
He says the province has been a conveyor belt of talented players for other provinces for the past years and it is time to own a professional rugby club.
“We have produced many Springbok players in the past. We have the likes of Victor Matfield and Trevor Nyakane who are both World Cup winners. That on its own is a clear indication that we have talent and I think it is time that we preserve it and keep it in the province.”
“If we do have the franchise and good development we will keep the talent here, players won’t have to travel to other provinces to pursue their rugby careers.
“It is the dream of every player to represent their province, it is a huge honour to represent your own province. We all want to play in front of our families and loved ones,” remarked Janse van Rensburg.
He also emphasised that the prospect will grow the sporting code in the province. “I feel as if players in the province are overlooked because there are no professional teams in the province. If we do have professional clubs we will have more rugby matches in the province every week and the national team scouts will be able to select players from those matches.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene