The tale of a mother who gave up on her drug-abusing son and who hopes for a long jail term after he was arrested for stabbing his girlfriend, has highlighted International Overdose Awareness Day which was commemorated on 31 August.
Polokwane Observer spoke to the family of a 30-year-old man who has been addicted to kat and dagga since he was a teenager.
The mother, who wished to remain anonymous, says she started noticing behavioural changes in her son at the age of 16 and recalls how household items went missing more frequently.
“He became disrespectful and was easily agitated. Initially I thought it was just puberty but when my cutlery, money and other belongings started going missing, it dawned on me that he must be addicted to something.”
When he was forced to go for counselling, he admitted to social workers that he has been using drugs since the age of 11.
His drug problem increased to the point where he was not attending school anymore and was roaming the streets trying to find his next fix, his mother says.
“He was admitted to a rehabilitation centre where he only spent two weeks before he was injured and had to return home. When he recovered from the injury he refused to go back to the centre.”
His drug dependency caused major changes to be made in the family’s daily routine. According to his mother everything had to be locked up.
If I wanted to use the bathroom I would have to lock up my belongings. I could not leave my phone on the table since it would be gone the next moment. Whenever he was questioned on where his drug problem started he would blame it on me and his stepfather.
He believes that I do not love him the same way I love his siblings, despite everything I do for him.”
When her son turned 21, she decided it was time for him to get out because of all the problems he created in their home.
“He drew the last string when he threatened to kill my husband, resulting in me obtaining a protection order against my own son. I found him a place of his own and bought him a refrigerator, stove, bed and other items he would need. I did not trust him with money and bought him groceries on a monthly basis but his addiction remained. I have now completely given up on him.”
The man was arrested on Friday, 31 August for stabbing his girlfriend, and has been denied bail.
“When I was at the bail hearing I cried because I did everything I could to get him back on track. I honestly hope he is found guilty and sentenced to jail because there is nothing for him outside.”
The mother says at this point she is glad he is in police custody because he has hurt the family too many times in the past.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe