The Mike Tauyatswala branch of the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) gathered at the Pietersburg Provincial Hospital on Tuesday to honour frontline workers who have succumbed to the Coronavirus.
Provincial Secretary, Jacob Adams outlined the programme and said the aim of the memorial day is to remember those who had worked hard and showed dedication in saving the lives of others.
“Interfaith prayers will be observed for the health and safety of workers during the pandemic.
“We have indicated on numerous occasions that there is not an adequate amount of protective clothing in local health institutions. The main aim was to support the frontline workers.”
During the ceremony, supporters lit candles and Pastor Tommy Kgomo led a service which was followed by a prayer session.
Messages of support were delivered by student and youth movements as well as alliance partners such as Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), South African Communist Party (SACP), South African Students Congress (Sasco), Young Communist League (YCL), South African Union of Students (SAUS) and Congress of the South African Students (Cosas).
The programme was expected to continue yesterday (Wednesday) with a motorcade to various institutions. Today (Thursday) the union is expected to hand over a memorandum of demand to the Office of the Premier, according to Adams.
He further remarked that Nehawu wants the Department of Health to engage with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) to expedite the applications and to review the postponed arrangements for the board exams for the foreign-trained doctors and other healthcare workers.
“We call on the South African Nursing Council (SANC) to review its decision on the registration of the foreign-trained nurses. We also call on government to abandon the current decentralised and fragmented approach in the procurement of PPEs, as determined by the guidelines on the management of the Covid-19 in the Public Service issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration,” he said.
Story: Maseo Nethanani