POLOKWANE – A team of investigators that was assembled to track down the murderers of Polokwane businesswoman, Lizette Deacon and her mother Hettie, made a breakthrough when two more suspects, a domestic worker who was employed by the deceased, and another suspect aged 41, were arrested. Both suspects were arrested this morning.
Police are in the meantime calling for information on another person.
The domestic worker aged 51, was arrested in Polokwane at about 08:00 and the other suspect was arrested in Ivory Park, Tembisa at about 09:00.
Photos: Bosveld Misdaad Ondersoeke
The police are also calling on a person called Owen (pictured below), to avail himself at the nearest police station as it is believed he might assist in the ongoing investigations.
Owen, who is a Zimbabwean, uses either of the following as surnames; Setsiba, Makutara or Mbedzi.
Anyone with information about the whereabouts of Owen is requested to contact Lieutenant Colonel Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501 or Sergeant Phaladi Makola on 082 749 2233 or the Crime stop number 0860010111. The Provincial Commissioner of police in Limpopo Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba has commended members of this team for spending sleepless nights, pursuing the suspects.
He also thanked community members for continuously assisting the police by providing valuable information that often leads to arrests.
The two suspects will appear in Polokwane magistrate’s court on Monday 21 September, on charges of two counts of murder, house robbery and kidnapping.
LISTEN:

The deceased, Lizette and Hettie were attacked and abducted from their townhouse in Welgelegen on Thursday afternoon. A manhunt was launched, police gave chase and one suspect was forced off the road along the R37 road between Polokwane and Lebowakgomo. The suspect fled on foot and the bodies of the women were found in the vehicle. Both women had sustained several stab wounds.
Advance Amid (30) and his co-accused, Casper Mudau (35), both Zimbabwean nationals, were arrested on Sunday, in Mookgophong and Polokwane, respectively. The two men face charges of murder,  two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances and a charge of contravening the immigration law. A charge of kidnapping will in all likelihood be added.
Today in court they were remanded in custody and their case postponed to Friday, 25 September.
12:30
Domestic worker one of two more arrests in Deacon murder case
POLOKWANE – The domestic worker who was employed by Lizette Deacon and her mother, Hettie, has been arrested in connection for the murder.
According to Bosveld Misdaad Ondersoeke, a private security services company, the woman was in a relationship with one of the two men who had been apprehended for the murder and kidnapping of the Deacon women.
Read more: Suspect arrested for Deacon murders; accomplices sought
A combined effort by the company, along with the police, detectives, SanParks E&CI and Senyaka Nyaka Security, led to Thembisa in Gauteng where another person has also been arrested.
Items that had apparently been stolen from the home the Deacons stayed in, were furthermore confiscated in Mankweng, the group confirmed.
Also read: Second suspect arrested for Deacon murders; duo in court on Tuesday
The police have confirmed two more arrests.
This is a developing story.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe