The Department of Education has allegedly recorded 30 incidents of school vandalism across six districts in the past few days.
This is according to department Spokesperson, Tidimalo Chuene, who indicated that National School Nutrition Programme food supplies and laptops top the list of items that were stolen. Other stolen items include a fridge, digital camera, television and desktop computers, she explained. Chuene highlighted that two schools, Mmamokgokolushi Secondary School and Mazwe Secondary School have reported vandalism of staff rooms while Laerskool Eugene Marais was robbed off all copper water taps.
She reiterated that these occurrences add to the ballooning national figure of schools that have fallen victim to criminals since the beginning of the national lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19.
Education MEC Polly Boshielo was quoted: “It is disturbing to note that Limpopo has not been spared the wrath of criminals who have taken advantage of the lockdown to pillage on our already limited school resources. The sad reality is that our children who must contend with missing out on learning for more than a month, now also face another hardship of their food and learning tools been stolen.”
According to Chuene, the affected districts are Capricorn South, Mopani West, Sekhukhune South, Vhembe East, Vhembe West and Waterberg. She said the cases have been reported to the police and reiterated that the department is collaborating with various law enforcement agencies to curb these unfortunate incidents before it spread to other parts of the province.
“We strongly condemn these acts and ask our communities to help in apprehending these criminals by promptly reporting any suspicious activities around schools. Our people should also not fall victim to buying stolen goods as that is equally a criminal offense,” Boshielo concluded.
Comment from the Provincial Police Communication Head, Motlafela Mojapelo was still awaited by the time of publishing.
Story: Endy Senyatsi