A 69-year-old man who was admitted to Netcare Pholosho Hospital in the city died from Covid-19 yesterday (Thursday), while his wife tested positive for the virus.

During a media briefing at the Office of the Premier on Friday, Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba stressed that the deceased had diabetic complications and upon arrival at the hospital on 7 April, he was screened and tested for the Covid-19. She further indicated that the tests came back negative although the patient had Covid-19 symptoms. Ramathuba added that the deceased’s family informed the department that he had not travelled outside of the  province in the past few months. Ramathuba reckons that the deceased was infected by someone at his home.
The 11 staff members at the hospital who have been in contact with the deceased will self-quarantine, even though they are all asymptomatic. Ten of them are reportedly quarantined at a hospitality venue in the city at the expense of the hospital, as they are unable to effectively self-quarantine at their respective homes. Ramathuba further explained that a female nurse at the hospital tested positive for Covid-19 after the health facility screened and tested all staff members, the nurse has since been placed in isolation. Ramathuba emphasised that a team of healthcare workers have been dispatched to monitor the wife of the deceased who is currently in isolation.
“The reality is that the man and his wife were infected by someone at their home. A team will trace their contacts to be screened. Limpopo currently has 27 positive Covid-19 cases. The Waterberg district tops the chart with 10, followed by Capricorn district on nine, Vhembe district on six, Mopani on two, while Sekhukhune district has no positive cases. We are now limiting visiting hours at hospitals to avoid allowing carriers of the virus in our health facilities,” Ramathuba explained.
Limpopo Premier, Chupu Mathabatha said that about 10 000 volunteers have been deployed throughout the province to assist with home screenings. An average of 100 000 people were screened on the first day, he said, adding that 110 people were tested. Mathabatha further stated that they have also identified 127 facilities that could be used for quarantine purposes in case of a total breakout. He added that 38 of these are readily available for use while the others are receiving upgrading.
According to Mathabatha, the spike of criminality has diminished since the declaration of the national lockdown. He indicated that as of 27 March the province has managed 818 roadblocks where 95 713 vehicles were pulled over and reiterated that they visited 8 037 liquor premises, 29 425 spaza shops and 20 085 taxi ranks, while 7 088 arrests have been made for transgressions with the Disaster Management Act. Mathabatha and Ramathuba concluded by conveying their heartfelt condolences to the affected family and pleaded with residents to adhere to health safety measures at all times to help fight the pandemic.

Story & Photo: Endy Senyatsi
endy@observer.co.za