Stanford Lake College learner David Pullinger earned a position on the prestigious IEB Outstanding Achievements list following the announcement of the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) National Senior Certificate (NSC) exams results this morning (Tuesday).
Information made available by the school indicated that he earned eight As, placed in the top 5% in at least six subjects and achieved a rating of seven in Life Orientation. He was placed in the Top 1% in the country for Computer Applications Technology, Information Technology and Mathematics. It was learnt that Pullinger, who hails from Mokopane, attained distinctions in Afrikaans First Additional Language, Mathematics, Advanced Programme Mathematics, Physical Science, Life Sciences, Information Technology, Computer Applications Technology and Life Orientation.
According to a statement issued by IEB Chief Executive Officer Anne Oberholzer, the 2019 pass rate is 98,82% compared to last year’s pass rate of 98,92%. She emphasised that all the candidates who passed achieved passes allowing access to tertiary study at one of the three levels. While 89,51% of the cohort achieved entry to degree study, 7,91% qualified for entry to diploma study and 1,4% achieved entry for study at the higher certificate level. While a total of 381 matrics in 13 schools in the province sat for the exams, Oberholzer indicated that 11 818 full-time and 779 part-time candidates from 227 examination centres across Southern Africa wrote the IEB NSC examinations in October and November last year.
She further highlighted that this was an increase from 2018 when there were 11 514 full-time candidates and 858 part-time candidates: “Umalusi has monitored all aspects of the 2019 examination process and has declared the results to be fair and valid. There is a clear realisation among IEB learners, their parents and educators that having the knowledge and understanding that lies behind the results on the certificate is far more important and meaningful for success after one’s schooling,” Oberholzer explained.
She concluded by saying the closing date for the application for re-marking was 13 January and the results from re-marking would be released on 6 February subject to approval from Umalusi.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za