It was a day full of excitement, tears and anxiety when learners across the province started the 2020 academic year at various primary and secondary learning institutions in Limpopo yesterday (Wednesday).
While the returning students exchanged hugs and high-fives with their educators and peers, newcomers looked somewhat confused, alone and not knowing what to expect on the first day. Parents and guardians of Grades R and 1 learners had a tough time as their ‘bundles of joy’ shed tears refusing to be left at school with strangers. For some the new academic year was the start of achievements in academic, sport and extra mural activities while others might see it as the beginning of sleepless nights due to a lot of assignments and homework.
Although parents and guardians can breathe a sigh of relief after a stressful Festive Season, they now have to worry about their children losing school items and waking up in the wee hours of the morning to prepare lunch boxes and getting learners ready for school.
Political heads of various departments and municipalities were expected to visit different schools across the province to monitor the situation and wish both learners and educators best of luck.Education MEC Polly Boshielo together with the Makhuduthamaga Mayor, Minah Mahula were anticipated to visit Rantobeng Secondary School, Moreko Secondary School and Hoërskool Ben Viljoen. Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs MEC Basikopo Makamu was expected to visit Hoërskool Pietersburg, Taxila Secondary School and Capricorn High School while Social Development MEC, Nkakareng Rakgoale was anticipated to visit Dendron High School, Kgakoa Secondary School and Nkgopoleng Bakone Secondary School. The Chief Whip of the African National Congress in the provincial Legislature, Essob Mokgonyana would have visited Mamolemane Secondary School and Kgakoa Secondary School while Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Thandi Moraka was expected by learners and staff of Hoërskool Frans Du Toit.
Story and photos: Editorial team
Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos: Ma Letitia de Beer saam met Angelique wat haar eerste dag in graad 1 begin.
Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos: Darius Rossouw kruip sommer vinnig in juffrou Siné Jacobs se hart in.
Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos: Juvan de Beer kleur dadelik sy werkboek se voorblad in.
Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos: Leago Bopape en Wietske Deetlefs hard aan die werk op hul eerste dag.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Isabel Joubert en Lexi Thomson wys hulle is slaggereed vir die jaar.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Ayden Lewis en Jandré Venter besef wat vir hulle voorlê vir die volgende 11 jaar.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Teacher Annezell van Staden starts the day with a story.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Tlangelani Mashisane and Troy delport take their seats.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Xikombelo Hlomane is eager to start her school career.
Pietersburg Laerskool: Lumay Prinsloo en Marlu Oggioni is klaar groot maats.
Pietersburg Laerskool: Juffrou Lumarie Lottering saam met Elouize du Toit.
Pietersburg Laerskool: Legkaart bou is deel van skoolgaan op hulle ouderdom meen Marco Gouws en Reinhardt Lindner.
Mika Neethling en Robyn Wiggill werk saam aan ‘n legkaart.
Marné Ebersohn Akademie: Graad 1-leerders Nerize du Preez, Wian Adlam, Rainin Olivier en Hanro Rutherford, voor, met Diederick Schoeman, Anrius Barnard, MC Smit en Evan Moolman, agter. Klasonderwyser Natalie Potgieter staan heel regs.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Tumisho Tema gets ready to walk into his new classroom.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Leago Seroka waiting to be seated in her new class.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Nsovo Mkhacane sports a wide grin on her first day at school.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Maropeng Mabitsela is excited about her new venture.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Mogaba Lediga not too happy on the first day at school.
Pietersburg English Medium Primary School (Pemps): Samuel Kobe is accompanied by her mother Amanda on his first day at school.
Pietersburg English Medium Primary School (Pemps): Mogoshadi Mashoene is ready for some academic work.
Pietersburg English Medium Primary School (Pemps): Mphodi Rafapa is eager to face her new educators.
Pietersburg English Medium Primary School (Pemps): Nsovo Ngoveni finds her new seat and class comfortable.
Pietersburg English Medium Primary School (Pemps): Boikano Mojapelo in happy mood on her first day at school.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Ndzalamo Chauke was first to occupy a seat in his new class.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Bonang Matheba at her new desk.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Nhlaweleko Hlungwani looking forward to his first lesson.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Tiara Joustene enters her new classroom for the first time.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Khutjo Lekalakala is happy to meet her new educators and classmates.
Northview Christian Academy: Proud learners reveals their drawings. They are Kgahliso Lesibe, Tshiamo Maphakela, Liam Rutherford and Daniel Nonyane.
Northview Christian Academy: Tshegofatso Bvumo, Nissi Makhantshisa, Phetole Muroa, Letsokotla Ramaoka and Phenyo Sekwati can’t wait to show off their skills on the sport field.
Northview Christian Academy: Onthatile Mamogobo, Bankuna Muhlava and Muhluri Mashamba show off their colouring skills.
Northview Christian Academy: Ramkotsane Kgasago, Ezekiel Ezomo and Alexis Morgan hard at work on the first day of school.
Northview Christian Academy: Khutso Moela puts his colouring skills to the test.
Mitchell House Squirrel’s Nest: Siblings Sedipa (Grade 1) and Maropene (Grade 00) Mphosi, front, with mother Reilly and sister Mmatsepo (Grade 10).
Mitchell House Squirrel’s Nest: Patika Thole, Jodi Burger, Nkateko Makhubele and Emily Swallow, all in Grade 1, explore the playground.
Mitchell House Squirrel’s Nest: Grade 00D learners Amire Moneil and Ariel Machiri with class teacher Jess Dale at the back.
Mitchell House Junior Phase: Parent Fred Molepo with son Theto and Mitchell House Headmaster Andrew Cook.
Mitchell House Junior Phase: Grade 1s Tumishang and Andile Manthata ready for school.
Akademie Reformia: Graad 1-leerder Hymnege Andrin, voor, met haar ma Michelle.
Akademie Reformia: Graad 1-leerkrag Elza van Rensburg met Francois Hoogendyk.
Akademie Reformia Kleinbegin Kleuterskool: Graad RR-kleuters Hailey Pelser en Mila Dunn met klasonderwyser Alta Pretorius.
Akademie Reformia Kleinbegin Kleuterskool: Kleuters Carmi de Witt en Malan Diedericks, voor, met onderwyser Wiekie van Ree en studentonderwyser Monene Anker.
Laerskool Pietersburg-Noord Primary: Tahisha Harmse en Tshepiso Nkadimeng is opgewonde op hul eerste skooldag.
Stepping Stones Early Learning Centre: Toddlers Reabetswe Poto, Ntombi Badimo and Kwano Ramashia with Principal Ina Buys.
Stepping Stones Early Learning Centre: Toddlers Reabetswe Poto, Ntombi Badimo and Kwano Ramashia with Principal Ina Buys.
Stepping Stones Early Learning Centre: Tshego Chokoe and Tshego Sethoga, Grade RR, are just friends.