Makakanka Rekaofela Football Club are the champions of the second annual Sammy Seabi Community Games played at Mongwaneng, in Ga-Mamabolo recently.
The tournament which is founded by former Polokwane City FC and current Mamelodi Sundowns FC midfielder, Sammy Seabi, took place in his home village where 16 top amateur teams around Polokwane competed for the coveted first prize of R50 000. Makakanka Rekaofela, coached by the Democratic Alliance (DA) Member of Parliament and national Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi won the 2019 edition 10-9 on penalties following an exciting two all draw with Letona FC. One of the interesting facts about Makakanka‘s victory in the final is that it was their fourth consecutive match in the tournament where they won on penalties.
Letona FC, who had reached the finals after an impressive win against defending champions Mabiloane FC, scored two quick goals in the first half to shock Makakanka and the watching spectators, many of whom were supporting the latter due to their beautiful style of football. As the match went into half time it seemed as if Letona were on track to cause another major upset after they knocked out tournament favourites, PSG FC in their opening game. But as has been the case in their semi-final match against Medium Fighters FC, Makakanka came back into the second half stronger, launching a series of endless attacks to pressurise the edgy Letona FC defence.
They were deservedly rewarded in the 55th minute when their veteran left back, Calvin ‘Mero’ Legodi scored with a slick header to make the score 2-1. The goal spurred Makakanka into renewed belief with their attacking moves coming through their creative players such as the diminutive Nkululeko ‘Kgokgo’ Hlongo and Dimakatso ‘Manyesa’ Rapetsoa. Every phase of inter-passing play between the Makakanka players was complimented by wild cheers of appreciation by the spectators which encouraged the players to keep attacking their opponents. Makakanka eventually scored the equalizing goal following an entertaining move of more than 15 short passes in which Legodi provided the assist with a well curled cross into the box which Monang Nhlapo chest trapped the ball into the net to take the match into penalties.
“We came to this tournament to deal with some unfinished business after we lost the final in 2018 to Mabiloane. I am happy that our heartbreak in the first year of the tournament inspired us to victory and we are now champions in the second year. Our team is blessed to have the talented players we have, who were hungry to win this trophy while being loyal to our brand of beautiful football with flair. We thank Sammy Seabi Foundation for a well organised tournament and we will be back in this year to defend our trophy,” said Malatsi.
To top off Makakanka’s dominance in the tournament, their goalkeeper Isaac ‘Chansa’ Koto won the best goalkeeper of the tournament while Hlongo scooped the best player of the tournament award.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za