Maseala Progressive High School Class of 2019, educators and parents gathered at the institution last Tuesday to celebrate the school’s 90% Independent Examinations Board (IEB) pass rate following the announcement of the results on the same day.
Although the school regressed from its 2018 96% pass rate, Principal Trust Chimuhundu expressed delight at their attaining the 90% IEB threshold. He indicated that 47 learners sat for the exams in the previous academic year of which 22 acquired bachelor passes, 15 diplomas and six higher certificate qualifications while five did not make it. Chimhundu applauded learners Neo Lamola and Mojapelo Mothabela for obtaining distinctions in Mathematics. He further said the results obtained were because of the hard work and dedication by both educators and learners and added that the continuous support they get from parents also contribute a lot is children’s school work.
“We are proud of all our learners and we are confident that they will represent the school well at various institutions of higher learning. Our streams allow our learners to pursue suitable courses that would groom them into better people. Winter camps and the assistance we get from external educators help us to produce good results. Maseala Progressive School alumni also contribute a lot in terms of our results as they are regularly invited to motivate our learners,” Chimhundu said.
He further stated that the school teaches learners from Grades 10 to 12 to calculate their Admission Point Score for them to be able to trace their performance which in turn motivates them to work even hard to achieve better results.
Maseala Progressive High School top learner Kanti Mokgohloa, who was the school’s heagirl in 2019, indicated that she was happy with the results she got although she had aimed for more. She wil Industrial Engineering at Stellenbosch University. She was a top learners since the first term although it was not easy as she mentioned that the competition was tough in her class but she soldiered on.
According to Mokgohloa, matric starts as early as Grade 10 and she reiterated that learners should always strive to have it all. She reminded the Class of 2020 that time is money in Grade 12 hence they should use it wisely and stay focused. She further said she had her own study time table and made sure that she followed the routine. She revealed her secret weapons being hard work, ambition, passion, sacrifice and prayer and concluded by thanking the educators, parents and her peers for keeping her focused.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Kanti Mokgohloa, 2019 head girl, is and overall top matric achiever
Neo Lamola has a distinction inMathematics and is the runner-up top Grade 12 achiever.
Comfort Rammala holds the third position in the top 10 and attained a bachelor pass.
Principal Trust Chimhundu with someof the accolades to be presented tothe top achievers.
Maseala Progressive School College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana congratulates Mojalefa Mothabela for obtaining a distinction in Mathematics.
Aspiring news reporter Mahlasedi Ledwaba can’t wait to start with her Media Studies course.
Deputy Principal Abraham Mmethi, Executive Director Gladys Mohlahlana, College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana and Principal Trust Chimhundu.
Deputy Principal Abraham Mmethi and educator Rachel Phaho celebrate the Class of 2019 and its achievements.
Maseala Progressive High School 2019 matriculants join College Chancellor Masilo Mohlahlana and Executive Director Gladys Mohlahlana in celebrating their IEB results.