About 204 top professional golfers, of which 104 represent 35 international countries, were expected to descend on Limpopo from early this week to compete in the 2020 Limpopo Golf Championship offering R3,5 million in prize money.
The championship, presented by Limpopo Tourism Agency (LTA) in partnership with Sunshine Tour, will commence today (Thursday) and finish on Sunday at Koro Creek Bushveld Golf Estate and Euphoria Lifestyle Golf Estate in the Waterberg area.
The tournament is expected to create much needed jobs in the area and also promote youth golf development.
LTA Chief Executive Officer Nomasonto Ndlovu was quoted to have said the tournament complimented their brand offering and promotion of diverse tourism experiences. “This we do not do alone as we collaborate with the private sector in order to drive for sector transformation. The Waterberg region where this tournament takes place has a myriad of tourist destinations like the Nylsvley Nature Reserve – a Ramsar site with over 400 bird species, the Waterberg Biosphere, Makapans Valley World Heritage Site, the Waterberg Meander, Marakele National Park and many private game reserves, to name but a few.”
Deputy Commissioner of the Sunshine Tour, Thomas Abt was quoted to have said they are delighted to be able to place the Limpopo Championship on an international stage. “Our partnerships with associations such as the LTA on the Sunshine Tour are based on offering exactly this kind of value and using golf as the vehicle to showcase to the world the amazing tourism treasures that exist within South Africa.”
Speaking at the launch of the championship in last Thursday, Economic Development, Environment and Tourism MEC Thabo Mokone reportedly said the event is seen as a boost to tourism in the province but most importantly as a vote of confidence in its capability to host mega golf events. The MEC commended LTA and its board for taking the bold step of partnering with Sunshine Tour to host this golf extravaganza.
“This brings over 100 golfers to our province and it will contribute to tourism in a big way. We hope golfers will also spend and leave some Euros behind and that will contribute positively to tourism and our economy of the province,” Mokone said.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com