A suspected burglar’s plans to rob a house in Welgelegen took a turn for the worst when he reportedly sustained a self-inflicted stab wound with a sword which was apparently among his stash of stolen items, and bled to death just outside the targeted premises on Tuesday.
Blood stains against the wall and on the sidewalk outside the residence on Gen de la Rey Street was evident of a serious injury.
A source on the scene told Polokwane Observer that the suspect allegedly entered the premises and broke into the house while the owner was not there. After reportedly collecting some items the suspect allegedly also took what seems to have been a sword from the house. During the process the suspect must have tripped and fallen causing the sword to penetrate his right leg around the knee area and cut off one of his main arteries, according to the source.
It seems as if the suspect tried to wash the wound at an outside tap before getting onto the wall and jump over to escape but he perished about 2 meters from the outside of the wall due to alleged blood loss.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident and indicated that Police were investigating cases of housebreaking and theft and that an inquest docket has also been registered.
He stated that the incident was reported at around 14:35. The complainant alleged that on the day he left his house at 12:00 and everything was in order with windows closed and doors locked.
At around 14:35 he received a call from his daughter who informed him that the house had been broken into. He rushed back to the house and found that a sliding door had been forced open. A brick, supposedly used to open the door, was also found on the scene, according to Mojapelo.
He added that an unknown male, estimated to have been in his 20s, was found on the other side of the perimeter wall bleeding from a wound to his right leg. Mojapelo indicated that items found lying near the bleeding man were confirmed by the home owner to have been taken from his house. These items included speakers, a jewellery box, silver sword and a pair of tekkies valued at R5 200. Emergency services were called to the scene but the man was certified dead on their arrival.
Investigations continue.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Emergency personnel and pathology services on the scene where the suspect was found and certified dead.