Anglo American Platinum shared the outstanding 2019 matric results reported by its three partner technical schools in Limpopo, which together achieved an average pass rate of 93.3% in the 2019 exams.
The three schools which the Company has been actively supporting since 2015 in collaboration with the Department of Education and other stakeholders, are Mogale-Wa-Bagale (near Twickenham mine and Burgersfort), Phaladingoe (near Mogalakwena mine outside Mokopane) and Thekganang (near Amandelbult mine outside Thabazimbi).
The 2019 results show a significant improvement from an average of 65% at the end of 2014, before the initiative was launched.
Through this collaborative effort, the three schools achieved pass rates which exceeded both the average in the province of Limpopo (73.2%) and South Africa (81.3%), with Mogale-Wa-Bagale, Phaladingoe and Thekganang receiving pass rates of 93.5%, 93.8% and 92.6% respectively. Phaladingoe’s bachelor’s pass rate increased from 31% in 2018 to 53% in 2019.
The school also retained its top school status in the Mapela education circuit. Thekganang increased its bachelor’s pass rate from 50% to 60%.
Other highlights include 100% pass rates in Civil Technology and Mechanical Technology at Mogale-Wa-Bagale, 100% pass rates in Technical Science, Electrical Technology (Power Systems) and Civil Technology at Phaladingoe, and 100% pass rates in Engineering Graphics and Design and Electrical Technology at Thekganang.
Anglo American Platinum Executive Head Human of Resources Lorato Mogaki was quoted in statement to have said: “We are immensely proud of the work that has been done to improve the quality of maths, science and technology teaching and outcomes at our partner technical schools. This programme opens doors for an increasing number of successful learners to access higher education and other training opportunities, and to improve their chances of finding work. We look forward to welcome many of them to our training programmes and other initiatives.”
Interventions and initiatives at the technical schools in 2019 included learner coaching and exam preparation camps for grade 11 and 12 learners, educator development and coaching, and focused development on Maths and Science for both learners and educators.
Nearly R7-million was also invested at Phaladingoe Technical High School to renovate classrooms, establish technical workshops, refurbish science laboratories, build a new kitchen and dining area, upgrade the administration block and water and electricity infrastructure at the school.
Anglo American Platinum’s partnership with the technical schools form part of a wider Anglo American South Africa education programme. This programme, which was launched in 2018 in partnership with the Department of Basic Education, aims to improve outcomes for learners in 100 early childhood development (ECD) sites and 100 primary and secondary schools local to Anglo American’s mining operations the country.