An angry crowd of disgruntled community members demanding access to Seshego Magistrate’s Court where the suspect in the Thoriso Kgomo murder case was about to appear last Thursday was surprised by the sight of the 18-year-old accused supposedly in detention displaying freedom of movement, takeaway in hand and unaccompanied by an investigating officer.
The discontented crowd made it clear that the suspect was lucky to have entered the building unnoticed otherwise they most probably would have taken the law into their own hands.
It was learnt from Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo that the suspect, who was 17 at the time of an incident during which he allegedly repeatedly stabbed Thoriso, a Northern Academy learner, with a sharp object at a party in Seshego on 2 January this year has already turned 18 but that he will be tried as a juvenile due to the fact that he was still under age when allegedly committing the crime.
Disruptions at the entrance to the court building occurred as community members continued demanding access to attend the court proceedings as the suspect should be treated and tried as an adult. As community members stormed the court building they were hurriedly prevented access by Police officers.
The same suspect is expected to appear in the same court later this month on a charge of rape reportedly committed in Seshego recently and was also facing a charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm that was allegedly committed in Lebowakgomo last year.
Community leader Victor Makhura addressed the crowd and indicated that the court will only allow a small group of people but not the entire group. He and other community members and leaders were elected to attend the court proceedings.
A woman has an altercation with a Police officer at the Seshego Magistrate’s Court. Community members were adamant to attend the proceedings of so-called King Budah.
“This is not justice. How can a murder suspect be dropped in front of the court and walk in freely with a takeaway in his hand? He should be handcuffed or escorted by Police. The actions of the Police leave us with no choice but to take the law into our own hands. We will kill those boys ourselves,” one of the community leaders exclaimed.
The case was postponed to 13 February for purposes of submission of the post mortem report.
Mojapelo confirmed that Thoriso was allegedly attacked and stabbed at about 02:00 on 2 January and taken to hospital in a critical condition as he sustained severe wounds and was unable to speak. Police launched a manhunt for the suspect whereupon he was arrested in Zone 3 in Seshego three days after the incident, which was also the day Thoriso passed on. He added that Police at first investigated a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm which has since been changed to murder.
Since the killing of Thoriso some unrest was reported in the area as community members went on a rampage in search of thugs and criminals and other alleged gang members as the Police were labelled as incapable of doing their job.
This resulted in the arrest of African National Congress Member of Parliament Boy Mamabolo, local community leader Motladi Puxley Setsiba and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Provincial Leader Jossey Buthane approximately two weeks ago. They are expected back in court in March on charges of malicious damage to property and theft. At the time Mojapelo confirmed the suspects’ appearance and indicated that they were granted bail of R500 each.
Mojapelo has not yet indicated whether Police visibility in Seshego was increased since the unrest.
Story/photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Police officers block community members at the entrance of the Seshego Magistrate’s Court.