Property experts were united in their hopes for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address (Sona) with clear leadership, a pragmatic outlook and actionable plans to boost investor confidence.
Tony Clarke, Managing Director of the Rawson Property Group in an article by Property24 said the speech held at least five positive elements for the property market.
Education and training
“The emphasis placed on young people, education and training was particularly important. If implementation of plans in these areas goes well, the youth will be far better able to create a financially stable future for themselves. This will have a very positive knock-on effect for the housing market in the long-term by expanding our already fast-growing middle-class – a vital component of a healthy and active property market.”
Job creation
Youth initiatives will also play a role in the president’s emphasis on job creation – another important influence on the economy, according to Clarke. “Job growth is key to maintaining market momentum. Without it, consumers lose confidence to buy property, even if they can afford to do so. By recognising the unemployment crisis and spotlighting reform through programmes like the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention, the government could go a long way towards boosting investor confidence.”
Student accommodation
A more direct impact on the property market will be seen in the government’s planned R64 billion investment in student housing – an investment that will also leverage at least another R64 billion in private capital. This will not only address the growing need for affordable student accommodation across South Africa; it should also trigger a sizeable resurgence in market activity, as well as stimulating the construction industry.
Social housing
The government’s planned investment in property isn’t limited to students, either. Ramaphosa announced a social housing programme that could leverage as much as R9 billion in private investment to construct 37 000 low-income rental apartments.
“Housing demand has definitely increased over the past year, especially at the lower end of the market. The social housing programme recognises shortages in this sector and will help address this growing need.”
Renewable Energy Projects
With Eskom’s plight in stark focus, Ramaphosa’s plan to increase grid capacity through renewable energy, amongst other sources, was understandably well received. According to Clarke this will not only help alleviate load shedding woes and stabilise our embattled economy; progress on this front should also renew investor confidence, indirectly boosting property market activity.
In addition the visible focus on renewable energy will help bring sustainability to the fore in architecture and design. This will offer opportunities for home owners to embrace eco-friendly solutions and add tangible value to their properties at the same time.