Motorists driving under the influence of alcohol had no chance of evading arrest during an operation focussed on drunken driving and conducted by Polokwane Police, local crime fighting structures and members of the Community Policing Forum (CPF) last week.
According to information the operation was rolled out on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings. Thursday evening alone saw nearly 20 drivers being arrested for drunken driving within two and a half hours.
A crime fighter checks a vehicle’s registration plate.
Vehicles were simultaneously checked for roadworthiness such as expired licence discs and any other visible defaults.
Polokwane Police Spokesperson Lesiba Ramoshaba said similar operations are conducted on a regular basis in and around the city. He could, however, not provide any statistics for the three nights.
After further enquiries Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that 37 people were arrested for drunken driving while another 22 suspects were arrested on charges of assault, theft, malicious damage to property, shoplifting and possession of suspected stolen property.
Meanwhile, Doornbult CPF conducted a mass patrol on the smallholdings on the northern outskirts of the city on Sunday morning. According to Doornbult CPF Chairperson Bennie Henning they were joined by members of the Westenburg Police Station.
“We did not make any arrests this time as we focussed more on visibility and getting residents to join in patrols and operations in future. We, however, had to escort two people home who allegedly got into a fight at local social club,” Henning said.
He added that after their last operation about a month ago during which several undocumented foreigners were arrested, the area seems quieter.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
Traffic piles up as a driver awaits being tested.
A driver is tested for driving under the influence of alcohol.
A suspect is escorted to a Police van.
A female suspect gets into the back of a van.
Officers take down details of a driver.
A driver is asked to blow into the tester.
A vehicle is surrounded by crime fighters and Police officers.
A female passenger waits as the driver she was with is loaded into a Police van.