About two months ago Limpopo joined the rest of the country and the world for the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence but efforts to create awareness about the vulnerability of women and children apparently bear little fruit judging by the frequency with which such transgressions are reported.
The past week again incidents were reported of children becoming victims of assault, kidnapping and murder. The latest incident involves a couple who were expected to appear in the Mokopane Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday in connection with the alleged killing of the woman’s four-year-old daughter on Sunday.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that the 26-year-old woman and her 28-year-old boyfriend were expected to appear in the Mokopane Magistrate’s Court on a charge of murder on Monday but the case was only enrolled for Tuesday.
He said the fatal event apparently stemmed from the man, not the biological father of the child, allegedly becoming agitated when the little girl started playing with him.
He reportedly then used cell phone charger cable to assault the child in the presence of the mother.
The couple had let the severely injured child go to sleep and only discovered later that morning that she had succumbed to her injuries.
Mojapelo said that the boyfriend later handed himself to Police and preliminary investigations lead to the arrest of the mother.
At Ga-Matlou, Mahwelereng Police arrested a 20-year-old suspect for allegedly stabbing his 12-year-brother to death two days before Valentine’s Day.
According to Mojapelo the incident took place at the siblings’ home after an alleged scuffle over the house key. The older brother then produced a knife and fatally stabbed his brother. The deceased has been identified as Amos Molekane.
The suspect then proceeded to the nearest Police station where he handed himself over
Police visited the scene and they found Amos’ blood covered body in the house. He was a Grade 7 learner at Sebiloane Primary School.
The suspect was expected to appear in the Mahwelereng Magistrate’s Court on Friday.
In a separate incident Moses Mongwe (30) was expected to appear in the Giyani Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday facing a charge of kidnapping.
This after he allegedly snatched a 19-month-old baby from her mother following an argument between the two.
Mojapelo explained that the mother was reportedly visiting Mongwe, whom she met through social media, when an argument erupted and she wanted to return home. It is understood that the suspect followed her to the local bus stop where he snatched the child from her and disappeared into the nearby bush.
Police were notified and while they speedily traced and arrested the suspect the baby remains missing. Mojapelo indicated that the search for the baby was still ongoing and anyone with information should contact Capt Shilenge on 060 339 1420 or 082 451 7179 or report to the nearest Police station.
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba condemned the incidents and called on all community members to desist from any form of violence or brutality.
Meanwhile, Police have arrested a 50-year-old man for allegedly killing his four children at Ga-Phasha on Tuesday.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com