Limpopo Coaches, the leader in luxury bus transport in the province, recently acquired a first in the country 60-seater Marco Polo Paradiso 1350 super-luxury bus to top its fleet of 16 high-end coaches.
The new bus is built on a Volvo B11R chassis with an 11 litre 430 horse power straight 6 motor with a 12-speed automatic gearbox. Imported from Brazil, this super-luxury bus has active air suspension, memory foam on all headrests and extra-wide seats to ensure passenger comfort. It also features TV monitors and USB ports for passengers and a luxurious rest room with all the bells and whistles promise to make even the longest trip a pleasure.
For the driver and co-driver there are a soundproof sleeping compartment with air conditioning and a steerable tag wheel to assist the driver to negotiate turns of the 15 meter long vehicle.
Co-owners Bennie and Corneli Groenewald started Limpopo Coaches in 2003 when they identified a need for luxury private charter services in Limpopo. After starting with an expensive hire fleet, they now own 16 high-end coaches. Their model is based on offering affordable luxury paired with the latest transport technology options and safety enhancements. “Our vision for the business is to keep on satisfying our clients by offering a service beyond the ordinary,” says Bennie.
“Limpopo Coaches has purchased 26 buses since 2003 and the purchase of this new bus is part of our effort to replace older resources and to keep abreast of the trends in the industry,” Corneli explained.
Limpopo Coaches offers transport for day tours, overland trips, cross-border tours and corporate excursions and according to Corneli, they have a bus for every need and guarantee the highest standard of passenger safety, using only well-trained and experienced drivers. “General Manager Jaco van Heerden is with us for 16 years now and his passion for the business is one of our greatest assets,” says Corneli.
The Groenewalds are actively involved in the day-to-day operation of the business. Corneli manages the administration while Bennie runs the workshop to ensure proper functioning of their fleet.
“We want to thank our clients for their support over 17 years and assure them of our continuous efforts to remain at the top of the industry by providing a more than excellent travel experience,” said Corneli.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
Bennie Groenewald, co-owner of Limpopo Coaches.
Corneli Groenewald, co-owner of Limpopo Coaches in the gulley of the new super-luxury bus.
Jaco van Heerden, General Manager of Limpopo Coaches behind the wheel of the Marco Polo Paradiso super-luxury bus.
Jaco van Heerden, General Manager of Limpopo Coaches and co-owner Corneli Groenewald in the cockpit of the new bus.
Instrumentation in the cockpit of the bus.
Office staff Grace Mokgonyana and Auckley Mnisi welcome visitors to the reception area of Limpopo Coaches.
Limpopo Coaches co-owner Corneli Groenewald tests the comfortable seats in the bus.
The spacious rest room on the bus has both a toilet and an urinal.
A front view of the new 60-seater Marco Polo Paradiso super-luxury bus.