Residents and learners from various schools in the city took the opportunity to exchange their normal attire for colourful red and white outfits on Friday when they celebrated Valentine’s Day.
Play areas were decorated with red hearts and at some of the schools, parents and educators took the lead to provide refreshments that contributed to the ambience.
Story and Photos: Editorial Team
Pietersburg Laerskool: Esther du Plessis en Bochilo Sekokotla tydens die skool se Valentynsokkie.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Drie hartebrekers, Jandré Venter, MJ Gerner en Ayden Lewis hou piekniek.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Matheti Legodi en Moagi Lekota ge­reed om kolwyntjies te geniet.
Curro Heuwelkruin: Getooi in ‘n pet en rooi das maak Janco Erasmus seker die meisies sien hom raak.
Hoërskool Pietersburg: JP Malan, Stephan Scheepers, Kadi Geerkens en Pieter Uys gereed vir die opskop in die skoolsaal.
Pietersburg Laerskool: JJ Pretorius en Chanell Schoeman spog met hul Valentyns­uitrustings.
Pietersburg Laerskool: Janine Jacobs vier Valentynsdag met balonne en harte.
Hoërskool Pietersburg: Michael Stopforth en Jordan Menzies by die Valentynsbal.
Noordjieland Pre-Primary School: Dressed to impress are Mahlatse Maibele, Murunwa Khuthe and Lefa Makek with Lesedi Makgoka, Ashers Sizibe, Delanay Pie­tersen, Naledi Molepo, Tshegofatso Nkadimeng and Kgantshi Komape at the back.
Noordjieland Pre-Primary School: Clinae Harmse, Phenyo Thosago and Thando Masogo have fun on the swings.
Noordjieland Pre-Primary School: Children reveal their Valentine’s Day fashion sense. In front are Ntoto Ntuli, Thomas Nemavhidi and Keabetswe Machaba with Lethabo Mamabolo, Onalerena Maredi, Keitumetse Letsoalo, Mapula Mashalane, Omphile Mogashoa and Princess Yiba at the back.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Rethabile Manganyi and Nare Selolo looking colourful in their red and white outfits.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Ditheto Makgahlela and Thabang Sogo ready to join fellow classmates to celebrate.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Kano Kopane, Lebogang Phalafala and Tshegofatso Letjelele took time to celebrate their friendship.
Laerskool Ivy Park: Analisa Baliwe and Matepa Ramabopa looking their best.
Pietersburg English Medium School-Grade R: Abitja Langa and Makgoshi Makgoto in a good mood.
Pietersburg English Medium School-Grade R: Matsobane Nkoana and Khumi Leshabane who were were crowned Mr and Miss PEMPS Grade R pageant on the day.
Pietersburg English Medium School-Grade R: Rirothe Nematatani and Amogetsi Moshibidu show-off their Valentine’s Day outfits.
Pietersburg English Medium School-Grade R: Maria Mathew and Ditheto Senyatsi enjoyed Valentine’s Day festivities.
Pietersburg English Medium School-Grade R: Karin Adlem, Pemps Grade R Principal prepared popcorn for the learners on the day.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Khutso Mothapo waiting for his classmates before the celebrations.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Masana Maluleke and Neo Chuene exchanged gifts on the day.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Mokoni Ramusetheli and Lehlogonolo Makola are happy to be part of the festivities.
Pietersburg Comprehensive School: Munangwana Phasiwa enjoying a slice of pizza.
Queue marshall Lucas Mothiba of Molepo Taxi Association dressed in his Valentine’s outfit.