Ali Salman reported to the Police in Polokwane on Friday after being wanted following a video seen to contain an alleged death threat against businessman Shabier Valjie circulating about two weeks ago.
Earlier Polokwane Observer reported that Salman, confirmed to be a Pakistani national and who refers to himself as “Ali G” in the video, was also sought for an immigration-related matter. A case of attempted murder of Razeen Patel, brother to double murder accused Rameez Patel, was reportedly withdrawn against him in the past.
At the time of going to print Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that Salman approached the Polokwane Police station on Friday in the company of his father, Salman Hamid.
Salman was warned to appear in court on the same day as his father in an immigration-related case next week.
Since November it was reported that Hamid, who claims to be the “mafia boss” of the South African Pakistani Association in Polokwane, has made court appearances in unrelated matters of alleged contravention of South Africa’s immigration laws as well as common assault and intimidation. The latter charges were instituted by Valjie immediately after an attack at a business in Superbia about three weeks ago that led to Hamid registering counter charges of common assault and pointing of a firearm against Valjie approximately two days later.
Asked whether Salman was simultaneously processed in the immigration-related case for which he was also sought since November, Mojapelo indicated that they were currently investigating and waiting for clarity on the asylum documentation and a South African driver’s licence that Salman apparently produced when he handed himself over to the Police on Friday.
According to information the video that resulted in Salman’s wanted status started trending the week before last, on the day when Valjie had to appear in court on the charges against him around the same time as Hamid was in the dock for the common assault and intimidation case. Both men have to re-appear in April.
In the meantime copies of complaints about his unlawful arrest by the Westenburg Police after the incident in Superbia which Valjie lodged with the national structures of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) and the Public Protector a week ago were forwarded to Polokwane Observer.
Story: YOLANDE NEL
>>observer.yolande@gmail.com