A spot in the cluster squad was the target of each athlete who took part in the primary and independent schools in Polokwane and Seshego during the Pietersburg Circuit athletics meeting held at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium on Tuesday.
The young athletes showed their talent and skill on track and field under the watchful eyes of their excited parents, guardians and educators all of whom lend their support wholeheartedly..
Leon Maakamedi, Chairperson of Pietersburg Cluster Athletics explained that they wanted to select a team that will represent Pietersburg Circuit at the Polokwane Cluster athletics meeting scheduled for today (Thursday) and tomorrow (Friday) at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium.
Maakamedi said the team will comprise of top three athletes in field events and top 2 athletes in sprint events from the meeting. “We are happy with what we saw in the track and field events. Most of the athletes were in the provincial squad last year. We want to keep that core and we are hopeful that we will come up with strong squad that will represent the Pietersburg Circuit well at the Polokwane Cluster meeting,” Maakamedi concluded.
At the time of going to press the organising committee was still finalising the team.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Carl Roberts from Laerskool Piet Hugo attains a distance of 15,9 m in the javelin for boys u.13.
Rambelane Bulala from Laerskool Ivypark’s effort in the shot put for boys u.13 delivered a distance of 4,14 m.
Chia Maka from Eagles Nest Christian School clears the bar at 1,11 m in the high jump for girls u.11.
Francois Smith from Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos comfortably 1,16 m in the boys u.11 high jump event.
Rufomo Ngobeni from Curro Heuwelkruin attains a height of 1,14 m in the u.11 girls high jump.
Sebriena Hartlief from PEPPS manage a distance of 20, 60 m in the girls u.13 discus item.
Kamogelo Maepa from Eagles Nest Christian School throws the javelin 12,5 m far during the boys u.13 javelin throw.
Lesiba Ramatsokotla, Athletics Covenor for Polokwane Circuit Athletics.
Ntwanamo Tshabalala from Pietersburg Comprehensive School threw distance of 4,12 m in the boys u.10 event.
Nic van der Merwe, u.10 from Curro Heuwelkruin lets the shot loose. His best distance was 5,18 m.
PEPPS’ Wanga Singo, winner of the boys u.13 100 m race in a time of 11,43 seconds.
Kutlwano Mosana, u.14 sprinter from from PEPPS approaches the finish line in the 200 m for girls u.13. She won in a time of 33,8 seconds.
Lerize van Rhyn from Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos finishesthe girls 100 m u.13 race in a time of12,87 seconds.
John-Ross Donovan from PEPPS flies through the air for a jump of 3,47 m during the boys u.13 long jump.