South African processional golfer, JC Ritchie won the second edition of Limpopo Championship at a golf course in the Waterberg area on Sunday.
The-25-year old claimed a two-stroke victory over fellow golfer Wilco Nienaber who came second.
Ritchie walked away with R 578 525 in prize money and a floating trophy.
Nienaber won R403 325, Hennie du Plessis R204 217,50 for finishing on the third position, Jacques Kryswijk
R204 217,50 for occupying the fourth position and Louis de Jager, R109 500 for completing the championship in the fifth position.
Ritchie was quoted to have said It was extremely special to have defended his title. “To play that kind of golf on the weekend around here is special because it is tough here. I watched guys make bogeys from everywhere, which they never do. So, it was ideal for my game plan. It has been a brilliant ball-striking all week long. I have not been this in control of my game in a long time, so I am happy. I wish to thank Sunshine Tour and Limpopo Tourism for the opportunity.”
Nomasonto Ndlovu, Chief Executive Officer of Limpopo Tourism Agency that partnered with Sunshine Tour to organise the event said: “Through this tournament we were not only able to raise our sports tourism profile to the world but to also position destination Limpopo as a leading tourism destination in the country. We could have not have succeeded alone had it not been for our partners, Sunshine Tour and European Challenge Tour. We wish to thank them so much help put us on the world map as this event was live streamed. We also thank the management of the two golf courses for working with us and offering their venues for the success of this tournament. We are excited as the world has been able to see the beauty of this part of the province and what it has to offer. It is s our wish that the players come back to explore more of our many offerings.”
Thomas Abt, Deputy Commissioner of Sunshine Tour was quoted to have said: “We are very excited about the fantastic week of golf. It has been amazing to have brought over 100 international players to Limpopo for this tournament to showcase what the province has to offer, particularly that two courses have been used this week. We will continue to work with Limpopo Tourism Agency to bring more golfers to this province.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com