Parents of Eagle’s Nest Christian School proudly looked on recently as the top ten performers in each grade of the Intermediate and Senior phases were recognised and celebrated during the institution’s academic prize giving ceremony.
Each learner received a school badge that they can proudly wear during the year.
Principal Mac van den Berg emphasised that the event was an outstanding occasion and applauded the recipients for their hard work and dedication. He further stated that he was proud of all the learners and reminded them to keep up the excellent work in the new academic year. Van der Berg concluded by urging all the learners enrolled at the institution to lose themselves in their school work in order to achieve good marks.
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Top achievers, Grade 5: In front are Phontso Mathabatha, Disthegofatso Tebeila, Xiave Nkuzana, Tondiwa Mwenitete and Vhuthuhane Akonaho. Tondiwa Mwenitete, Tshepiso Sebeya and Ranewa Matumba are in the second row At the back are primary school Head Bertie de Lange and school Principal Mac van den Berg (far right) with Ayo Shibambu, Sibusiso Mtimhulu and Khutso Rakumako.
Top achiever, Grade 6: In front are Kulemya Wasema, Letago Mphahlele, Boitumelo Shoana, Twyla Mashaba and Bonolo Mampuru. Boikanyo Mohlake, Matsobane Lekalakala and Lodi Mangani are in the second row. At the back are primary school Head Bertie de Lange and school Principal Mac van den Berg (far right) with Mahlohonolo Mashala and Madimetja Mgwamoore.
Primary school Head Bertie de Lange and school Principal Mac van den Berg congratulate the Grade 7 top achievers. In front are Prayer Muchirahondo, Ngwako Ramoshaba, Ruth Matshidiso Phiri and Vukona Chauke with Phophi Matodzi, Tshegofatso Boshomane and Thuka Mamabolo behind them.
Grade 8 top achievers: In front are Mary Raphela, Karabo Malatjie, Ndiwanga Madzivhandila, Maize Shibambu and Paballo Rashapole. In the middle row are Tashinga Dhlakama, Unathi Malebana, Puleng Ramorapeli and Blessings Mokgola. Deputy Principal Zhak Maloney, Ntshepe Ramofoko, Omphile Moloantoa and Principal Mac van den Berg are at the back.
Top achievers in Grade 9: In front are Malesela Mogothlane, Sibusiso Mkhabele, Shalom Mudenga, Paballo Leshaba and Letago Malatji with Onthatile Molahlana, Orefile Mashaba and Lerato Mashego in the middle row. At the back are Deputy Principal Zhak Maloney, Nyakallo Mafeo and high school Head of Department Isaac Manamike.
Grade 10 best performers: In front are Dominic Maminingu, Tshegofatso Mashiane, Tshireletso Ramifikeng, Alicia Mmethie and Michaella de Necker. Mitchel Hlangwang, Motshepana Mashala, Odirile Ngwaila and Ruvimbo Maromani, are in the second row. At the back are Deputy Principal Zhak Maloney and high school Head of Department Isaac Manamike.
Best learners in Grade 11: In the front row are Maano Matumba, Phethagatjo Sethemane, Kalkidan Admassu, Palesa Dibakoane and Malebo Malope. In the second row are Nthabiseng Modiba, Mankwana Mothebuka and Oratile Matlala. At the back are Deputy Principal Zhak Maloney, Charis Gombokomba, Bokang Phasha and high school Head of Department Isaac Manamike.