What started as a small business in a garage in 2003 has since developed into an award-winning company, giving the proud owners and employees of JE Auto Body bragging rights following being named runner-up for best overall achievement by Lightstone Consumer recently.
For the past 15 years Lightstone Consumer has been measuring customer satisfaction for the premier auto body repairers in South Africa. They process in excess of 40 000 vehicle repair records every month during which a panel beater outlet is evaluated on, among others, client satisfaction, whether the vehicles was fixed correctly the first time, staff friendliness and if the client would recommend the business to others.
The award was made to JE Auto Body, a major structural repairer, as Top 3 Overall Best in Limpopo and based on how likely the motor body repairer is to provide a quality repair, to fix a vehicle the first time, be ready on time, have the friendliest staff and the likeliness of a customer to recommend them.
Besides winning the prestigious award JE Auto Body is now also accredited Chevrolet and Opel distributors.
“The award was a big honour and motivated us to strive towards even better service and scooping the first place for this year,” owner Johan Hattingh said.
Seventeen years after Hattingh started the business which was renamed to JE Auto Body in 2012 he can only be proud about what he and his staff have achieved over the past years.
He expressed his gratitude towards his staff, customers and suppliers for their continuous hard work and support.
The name change came in 2011 when Hattingh invited his wife Elize to join in the business and the formidable husband and wife team has since expanded the business to become a major market leader in the local motoring industry.
JE Auto Body believes in empowering all employees to become independent breadwinners and send them for refresher training on a regular basis. They strive towards honesty, self-respect, responsibility and excellent workmanship. They are customer-driven and aim at answering to all needs of any customer.
JE Auto Body’s offers panel beating, spray painting, rubberising, paint-free dent removal and tow-in services.
In 2018 JE Auto Body became the first auto body repair company in Limpopo to accept delivery of a Carbon System, the latest in car body technology, which enabled them to do auto body repairs they were previously unable to do.
The Carbon System was first introduced in Germany in the late 1990s. The import company Gondolier provided a technical sales to introduce the system to JE Auto Body and proper training was also provided when delivery took place.
The advantages of investing in the Carbon System are that all non-structural damage can be repaired 100% of the time and the repair time is reduced to the minimum which justifies repair over replacement.
The Carbon System is time efficient, cost effective, delivers higher quality repairs and gives anyone who has it a competitive edge.
For more information visit JE Auto Body at 39 Yster Street or call them on 015 292 6818. Hattingh can also be contacted on 076 196 7076.
Story and photos: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
The dedicated team of employees at JE Auto Body.
Receptionist Marlize Botha is in charge of the front office.
Panel beater Edwin Mathake busy on one of the vehicles.
Fransie Mogale is an assembler at JE Auto Body.
Daniel Ramoshaba assembles the front bumper of a vehicle.
Maggie Moloatsie with some of the high quality products used in the spraying booth.
Frans Ramoshaba wears appropriate safety gear as he applies body filler to a client’s vehicle.
JE Auto Body received delivery of their new Carbon System earlier this week. From the left are Ernst du Preez and Hendrik White, Balco Auto Coatings, Elize and Johan Hattingh, JE Auto Body owners, and Dillon Dennis and Roan Cumberlege, Gondolier.
JE Auto Body boasts a state-of-the-art spray painting booth.