This year’s Marula Festival is expected to contribute in excess of R40 million to the local economy of Ba-Phalaborwa and the Mopani district through general trade and further also generate more than 500 job opportunities in local communities over a period of three weeks. This according to Thabo Mokone, MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism (Ledet).
Mokone who, when addressing the official opening of the Youth Movement Festival at Phalaborwa last Saturday, said the festival attracts scores of domestic, regional and international tourists and is anticipated to grow the numbers in the future festivals. Hence, he explained, there was an urgency to develop the Limpopo Marula Industry Hub with a well-developed infrastructure to host in excess of
50 000 festival patrons within the town of Phalaborwa the two weekends of the event.”
The Gospel and Jazz show of the Marula Festival set for this Saturday at Impala Park Stadium in Phalaborwa will offer a line-up of local, national and international artists and is expected to draw huge crowds.
Moses Ngobeni, Project Manager for Marula Festival and Director of Tourism at the Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism stated that 8 000 tickets have been reserved for the Gospel and Jazz Festival which are available at Computicket, Shoprite and Checkers outlets at R200 only.
He had praise for members of the public who attended the Youth Movement of the Marula Festival last Saturday. “It was an amazing event, we had 4 000 revellers at the event. We supplied 6 000 litres of the marula beer on the day,” he said of the event that featured local and national hip-hop and kwaito artists at Impala Stadium. He added that they were looking forward to host myriads of music lovers, tourists and merrymakers at the Gospel and Jazz Festival.”
“We urge everyone not to miss out on the festival. It is going to be big we have also reserved 6 000 litres of the marula beer which we will supply free of charge on the day. We call everyone to come in their numbers in discover the greatness of the marula,” remarked Ngobeni.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
South African female rapper Sho Majozi entertained the crowd during the Youth Movement Festival.