Nearly 500 rural women affiliated with 14 registered women-owned marula brewing cooperatives from various areas in Limpopo will benefit economically from the annual Marula Festival to be held in Phalaborwa from 21 February to 1 March.
The cooperatives will be tasked with preparing and supplying 12 000 litres of traditionally brewed marula beer during the festivities. They will also supply jam, nut butter and beauty products made from various parts of the marula fruit.
Economic Development, Environment and Tourism MEC, Thabo Mokone when addressing the media launch of this year’s festival in Tzaneen last Wednesday, reportedly said he was happy to see the cooperatives benefiting from the festival because the economic growth of the province relies heavily on the promotion of women owned as well as emerging sustainable businesses.
He reportedly said the department would remain committed to ensure that the festival continues to develop into a competitive market and major contributor to the provincial economy. “The tree has brought a source of revenue to many households through its seasonal and traditional beverage, jam products, nut butter, beauty products, male sexual enhancement ingredients, juices and many other products beneficial to the people. It is during the past 15 years that we saw a massive booming of various products emerging from the existence of the Marula tree particularly its fruit.”
He also acknowledged the growth of the festival, its ability to empower small businesses and inject massive capital and investment opportunities to the people of Ba-Phalaborwa Municipality and the people of Limpopo as a whole.
He praised the Ba-Phalaborwa Municipality as well as Mopani District Municipality for having been the host of the event for the last 15 years and for maintaining the success of the Marula Festivities. “The 15th edition of the Marula Festival promises to be a spectacular and will see performances by various Limpopo based artists inclusive of National sensations. We will of course be entrained by various musicians on both the second Saturdays during the Festival. But our main focus will of course be on supporting and showcasing small business initiatives throughout the week and encouraging learners to pursue careers in of waste management, environmental protection, tourism and sustainable economic development initiatives,” concluded Mokone.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com