Kgakoa and Sethwethwe secondary schools were announced the winners of the Capricorn District Municipality’s Disaster Management School debate competition during the final leg of the contest at a venue in Polokwane last Wednesday.
The two schools were each represented by four learners who gave an impeccable and in-depth presentations on how they can prevent disasters in their schools. They also created awareness programmes and campaigns on disaster management in their respective communities and schools guided by the theme of the competition “ Reduce Disaster Damage to Critical Infrastructure and Disruption of Basic Services”.
Betty Kgare, Member of the Mayoral Committee for Community Services at CDM addresses the learners on behalf of Executive Mayor of CDM, John Mpe.
Kgokoa Secondary School from Aganang walked away with a R30 000 cash prize, a floating trophy, tablet devices, gold medals and certificates after winning the essay segment of the competition.
Sethwethwe Secondary School from Molemole took home R25 000 in cash, a floating trophy, certificates and gold medals after winning the oral segment of the competition.
On their way to the finale they eliminated Thoka Mpe Secondary School and Matladi High School.
Congratulating the schools, Betty Kgare, Member of the Mayoral Committee for Community Services at CDM who addressed the ceremony on behalf of Executive Mayor of CDM, John Mpe said the competition stretches their collective responsibility and put all their resources together as spheres of government and involve schools in ensuring disaster resilient communities. “This is one of the models we explore to intensify and promote the knowledge of disaster risk management at school level. We explore this initiative in fulfilment of the National Disaster Management Framework which requires that disaster risk reduction education be integrated into primary and secondary school curricula with a consideration that schools should be regarded as focal points for raising awareness about disaster risk management and disaster risk reduction,” Kgare said.
She said the framework expected them to link the risk reduction component of disaster management with the broader environmental education programmes. “We therefore need the positive energy of learners so we can foster education-based solutions to achieve this. That is why your schools have been identified alongside others to participate in the implementation of strategies about the importance of reducing disaster damage to infrastructure and the disruption of basic services. This we do informed by an understanding that there is a need to increase public awareness and involve schools in the prevention and mitigation of disaster risks.”
She further stated that they firmly believe that putting disaster risk reduction on the agenda in schools, learners will champion and pass it on amongst their peers and ultimately families, in order to make a difference in their communities. “Research into the topics of this project will expose them to knowledge about ways to avoid human induced disasters such as fire accidents and unsafe electrical wiring in our homes. This project will also empower them with wisdom on how to stay combat-ready to mitigate the effects of disasters, as well knowledge about staying resilient to disasters. Ultimately, their research, articulation of topics as well as their contestation of ideas will give us an insight into problems, findings, analysis of the impact of disaster damage to our infrastructure and therefore find innovative lasting solutions to disaster risk reduction,” Kgare concluded.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com