Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Provincial Leader Jossey Buthane, who faces charges of malicious damage to property and theft, appeared in the Seshego Magistrate’s Court on Friday with three more accused facing new charges relating to recent unrest in the township.
Buthane, Freddy Magongoa, Obakeng Makhura and EFF councillor Oupa Ramaphoko were granted bail of R1 000 each and warned to be back in court on 6 March, the same day on which Buthane, African National Congress Member of Parliament Boy Mamabolo and local community leader Motladi Puxley Setsiba are expected to appear again following their earlier arrest.
Buthane, Magongoa, Makhura and Ramaphoko are facing charges of attempted murder, theft, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and kidnapping.
Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo indicated that Buthane and three others were arrested last Friday and Thursday respectively in connection with unrest in Seshego which erupted after community members went on rampage in search for suspects responsible for crime in the area on 12 January.
Mojapelo said in the process the suspects allegedly damaged property and furthermore kidnapped a person and took him to a secluded spot where he was reportedly assaulted until he lost consciousness. A firearm safe allegedly also went missing during the raid conducted by the suspects, according to Mojapelo.
Asked whether the new charges are linked to the ones Buthane, Mamabolo and Setsiba are facing, Mojapelo said: “These crimes were committed on the same day, 12 January 2020 in Seshego but could not be opened as the victim was still incapacitated. They are therefore separate from the ones they were earlier arrested on. All cases were remanded to 6 March 2020.”
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has strongly condemned the conduct of people taking the law into their own hands. “People wanting to assist the Police in fighting crime must do so legally. Anyone who commits a crime in the name of assisting the Police, will be arrested regardless of his or her status in society,” Ledwaba reportedly said.
Mojapelo indicated that more arrests were expected.
Buthane, in a media statement said the EFF condemned in the strongest terms the conduct of Police who have clearly become political players instead of ensuring the safety of the people.
“These charges are neither here nor there but a cheap stunt to try and intimidate the EFF from exposing the failures of the current government. We shall never retreat nor surrender because ours is not just politics but a calling to serve the people of Limpopo,” the statement read.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com