Two different competitions hosted at the Polokwane Golf Club on Saturday and Sunday respectively delivered some exciting golf from nearly 100 entrants.
The Monthly Medal golfing challenge played on Saturday saw 121 golfers competing in five different divisions. Luanie van Rooyen claimed the first spot in the Ladies Silver category with 74 nett while Lady Ratsela took the lead in the Ladies Bronze after finishing the contest with 70 nett. Men’s A-Division was won by Jacques Pretorius with 68 nett followed by Azhar Suliman with 69 nett and Divan van der Heever on the third position with 71 nett.
Phil Mashakane made opponents eat his dust in Men’s B-Division as he finished first with 69 nett.
He was followed by Willie Marx on the second place with 70 nett on a count in while Joas Legodi settled for the third place also with 70 nett but on a count out. Lady luck was seemingly on Thomas Pretorius’ side as he managed to win the Men’s C-Division with 71 nett on a count in and also claiming the jackpot lucky draw that was paying 3 420 units.
He was followed by Freek Schutte on 71 nett on a count out while Johan Joubert took the third spot with 73 nett.
Sunday’s individual stableford challenge attracted 73 golfers. Nola Peceur proved to be the best in the Ladies division as she won with 39 points followed by Ratsela on 37. Aaron Segwapa scooped the first prize in a division for men with handicaps nine and under after completing the challenge with 38 points. The second place was occupied by Edwin Mackays with 36 while Peet Swart finished third with 35. A category for men with handicaps 18 and under went to Modjadji Ngobeni with 40 points. Francious Hartlief took the second place with 39 points and Richard Pila claimed the third place with 38 points.
Byron Basson claimed a prize for playing nearest to pin 16 while Lauran Marais played nearest to pin two. Ngobeni played the longest drive at number two with Aubrey Ndlovu rewarded for the longest day with nine points.
Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za
Hlamalani Chauke tees off at the Polokwane Golf Club.
Calie Swart in action on the tee box.