Reports of the recent rape of seven children, aged between four and 18 years, in just three days was a grim reminder of how vulnerable the province’s children are against the onslaught of sexual predators in Limpopo.
Six children between the ages of four and 10 were reportedly raped by a single suspect at Tswinga Gotha village outside Thohoyandou last Thursday and Friday respectively while an 18-year-old Grade 12 learner was reportedly raped at Magatle outside Lebowakgomo on Saturday.
According to Provincial Police Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo, Gabriel Mashavhathakha was arrested on Sunday and briefly appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Monday in connection with the alleged rape of the five minors. He was remanded in custody while investigations continue and will appear again on 29 June. Mojapelo indicated that two of the five victims belong to the same family and were reportedly raped last Thursday while the remaining suspects were raped the following day.
It is alleged that the suspect apparently forced his victims to his house in the area where he then reportedly raped them.
Community members alerted by the suspect’s actions mobilised and apprehended him whereafter they assaulting him, according to Mojapelo. Police were notified about the incident of mob justice and quickly responded to rescue the suspect.
In a separate incident a Grade 12 learner walking alone through the bush along the road between Magatle and Mapatjakeng to attend Saturday classes at school was reportedly accosted by a suspect who at first threatened her and subsequently raped her before fleeing the scene.
A passer-by heard the learner’s cry for help and called the Police. On their arrival at the scene a manhunt for the suspect was immediately launched and the learner taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.
Mojapelo said the unknown suspect was described by the victim to have been middle-aged and wearing a red T-shirt, brown trousers and black tekkies.
Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has strongly condemned the incidents and has instructed members of the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit to tighten all the screws when investigating the cases to ensure successful prosecution.
He has also instructed the Police to hunt down the alleged rapist of the 18-year-old learner and bring him to book. Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspect is requested to contact investigating officer Steven Mogalemo on 082 625 1333 or report to the nearest Police station.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com