A special task team was established to trace the suspects responsible for the brutal mob killing of a person at Mandiwana Village in the Siloam Policing area outside Thohoyandou last Wednesday.
Mob justice being rife and the Thohoyandou area being labelled as among the hotspots for such heinous crimes were once again underlined when still images and a video surfaced last week of a man allegedly being served justice after being accused of rape.
The video clearly shows the body of a person engulfed in flames while community members are standing by and watch the man they accused of raping a 24-year-old woman burn to death. Images show how the man was partially stripped and tied up before he being set alight.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident and indicated that Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba has condemned the brutality and the fact that community members took the law into their own hands.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the brutal attack followed an incident in the early hours of the same day when the deceased allegedly entered a house and raped a 24-year-old woman.
The victim later spotted the alleged rapist in the same area and immediately alerted community members, according to Ngoepe. He added that the angry mob gave chase, cornered and attacked the man (35) with various objects after which he was set alight.
Police were alerted about the incident and responded quickly together with emergency medical services.
When they arrived at the scene they found the burnt body of the man and that the crowd had already dispersed.
No arrests have been made yet and Ngoepe emphasised that Ledwaba has established a special task team to trace the suspects. He also warned those with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects to avail themselves at the Siloam Police Station.
Alternatively they can contact investigating officer Samuel Mulele on 082 414 3939 or the Crime Stop number on 08600 10111.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com