Senior provincial government officials were reminded by Premier Stan Mathabatha during the Executive Council (Exco) Lekgotla yesterday (Wednesday) that it was not their task to question the demands of the people but rather deliver on what residents wanted.
The session held at Protea Hotel Ranch Resort was expected to focus on assessing progress on the implementation of planned programmes and projects during the 2019/20 financial year, to review expenditure trends to date and the budget adjustments as implemented following the November 2019 Budget Lekgotla and to interrogate and approve the planned programmes and projects for 2020/21.
Mathabatha emphasised that the people have said they wanted to see a government that improves its capacity to deliver on the electoral mandate, prioritise the task of nation-building and social cohesion, grow the economy and create much-needed jobs – especially for youth – and expedite the process of land reform so that land ownership can reflect the reality of the national demographics. The Premier added that the task of uniting the nation and ensuring socio-economic development of the country was a hallowed task which required absolute commitment and discipline.
Mathabatha also reminded that the Lekgotla was taking place just over a month after the release of the ruling party’s January 8 Statement through which the African National Congress had identified priorities for this year. These he outlined as building a capable state that serves all the people, building a united and cohesive society, investment, jobs and inclusive growth, effective land reform programme, eradicating poverty and improving people’s lives, education and skills for a changing world, social cohesion and safe communities.
“It is the task of the Lekgotla to breathe life to these priorities as they are not a product of creative thinking but a reflection of the true aspirations of the people. We have taken a solemn oath to direct our energies towards extinguishing the dehumanising flame of poverty and joblessness. We must do this with the knowledge that it is indeed within our power to bring about change in the lives of our people. We should always remember that as we build houses, construct roads and connect households with electricity, we are not doing our people any favour. The provision of these and many other services is part and parcel of our delivery obligation on the contract we have signed with the people,” Mathabatha emphasised.
He added that he expected the gathering to clearly identify mechanisms that be used to facilitate economic growth and development through the planned Special Economic Zones, redefine the role of mining houses – in particular – the role that the mining industry should play on the economic upliftment of the communities, and improve audit outcomes to enhance public confidence in government.
Mathabatha concluded by urging attendees to use their collective wisdom and energy to bring together a viable programme of action to be implemented by the provincial government as he wished Lekgotla robust and fruitful discussion.
The Exco Lekgotla was expected to conclude today (Thursday).
Story: ENDY SENYATSI
>>endy@observer.co.za