Nelson Mandela shaped a better world through his own initiative, formed and joined many organisations and alliances during his lifetime, and continues to be a symbol of the power that one individual has to make a difference.
Social Development MEC, Nkakareng Rakgoale says Nelson Mandela has played a huge role in her life, and as an MEC, as it has impacted her to see and treat everyone equally and fairly.
“As the MEC for Social Development, Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) and Provincial Working Committee (PWC) member of the ruling party, I appreciate the great work and effort by Tata Nelson Mandela and other freedom fighters in the attainment of the freedom. He fought for equality hence you are seeing ministers, mayors, premiers, councillors and and MECs who are females,” she said.
She adds that women are also ascending to senior positions in government administration and parastals.
“I’m very excited that as a country, we are generally enjoying the fruits of the hard- earned democracy. As the political head of the department, I’m however worried that we are still experiencing incidents of gender-based violence, where the basic right of life for women, children and other vulnerable people of our society is still violated. We can’t enjoy freedom to the full while we are still hearing about the violent attacks on women and children,” she said.
She adds that Mandela had a special place in his heart for children and the elderly, so it would have made him infinitely sad to see this level of abuse meted out against women and children. “We are therefore continuing to call for people who are experiencing difficulties in their relationships and families to speak out and also seek assistance from our social workers who are deployed across the province. During the lockdown period they responded to about 245 cases of GBV and this is something that is worrying,” she adds.
She concludes that a proper way of celebrating Tata Mandela’s birthday on 18 July will be expressing and appreciating women and children in order to have a strong family unit.
“We urge those who want to do their 67 minutes for Nelson Mandela, to keep observing the strict safety precautions in line with Covid-19,” she advised.
Story: Anne Molope
>>anne@nmgroup.co.za