A well-known resident of the city, Charles van Wyk last Wednesday passed away in Mediclinic Limpopo, after he was diagnosed in with Parkinson’s Disease in 2016 and with Alzheimer’s last year.
Van Wyk and his wife, Drienie were instrumental in charity circles in the city, and his passing will leave a void that will be difficult to fill.
Charles was born in Queenstown in the Eastern Cape on 28 October 1952 and married Drienie in 1972.
In 1970 he joined the South African Police Force and retired in 2006, after he reached the peak of his career as the assistant provincial police commissioner.
Charles was surely not the idle type, and lectured at the Tshwane University of Technology from 2007 to 2011. Subjects he lectured included Introduction to Policing for first-year students and crime investigation for second and third years.
From 2008 to 2016 he served as the president of the Limpopo Blue Bulls Rugby Union (BBRU).
From 2016 until his death, Charles was involved with the Vision of Hope Foundation and together with his wife, served as the driving force behind the Leeuwkuil Shelter.
This shelter is successfully being run with the help of the Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100, which also obtained the premises on which it is situated.
Despite his condition worsening over the last few months, Charles and Drienie remained steadfast in supplying and distributing food and clothes to less fortunate families.
Charles is survived by his wife, daughters Tina (married to Lourens Coetzee) and Liana (married to Gerhard Pretorius) and grandchildren Martin Weweje, Juan Coetzee and Leané Pretorius.
The couple’s son, Riaan passed away years ago. According to Drienie, the family will remember her husband’s love for them and especially for their grandchildren, and the compassion he had for those who were in need.
Tina will remember her father always being there to assist.
“He always assisted, regardless of what the help was needed for.
Their youngest daughter, Liana, will remember her dad as a devoted Christian who lived his religious principles.
“He was a humble man who people looked up to, because he himself never looked down on another person. He was a gentle giant and my super her when I needed one.
Story: Barry Viljoen
>> editor@nmgroup.co.za