Newly-elected President of Seshego Cricket Club, Sakkie Mabala Kwakwa aspires to improve the standard of cricket in Seshego and wants to see aspiring cricket players from the area and surrounds playing for the national cricket team.
Kwakwa, a qualified electrical engineer and philanthropist, was elected unanimously at the club’s Annual General Meeting in Seshego last month.
He said his core objective is to develop a new schools cricket league for both primary and secondary schools in the area.
“We don’t have a cricket oval in Seshego; most of our matches are played in Polokwane and Nirvana. We want to build an oval and club house in Seshego. We also want to ensure that our senior players are equipped with the relevant coaching and umpiring courses. We aim to create a full structure which consists of teams of all ages for girls and boys structures,” Kwakwa said.
He is looking forward to working with all his executive members, the players and coaches in their quest to improve the standard of cricket in Seshego.
“The club has been there for years and we want to improve it. We are not where we want to be as a club. We have an abundance of talent but we don’t have adequate resources. I believe the standard of cricket can improve in Seshego and we are doing fairly well. But, with more effort, we can move from good to great.”
The former Impala Cricket team player, who recently married his partner of eight years, said he was jubilant to be elected as president of the club.
“It is by far the greatest honour to be elected as the chairperson of Seshego Cricket Club, being a player in the early 2000’s was an amazing experience but being chosen by the members of the club to serve them is truly a tremendous feeling.
“It brings great joy to my heart to know that Seshego being the community I grew up in has confidence in me to lead them to greater heights.
“Hand-in-hand with the committee members, the players, the coaches and the community at large, we can all come together to build a team that everyone can be proud of,” concluded Kwakwa.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>reporter03@nmgroup.co.za