In the 21st century, scientific and technological innovations have become increasingly important as we face the challenges and benefits of both globalisation and a knowledge-based economy. University of Limpopo Science Centre Manager, Annelize Potgieter says that in order to contribute to the solving of these challenges, we need learners that find science topics engaging and relevant to their current situations.
“Unfortunately, this is not the case. South Africa is still seeing a decrease in learners that choose science as a subject in Gr 10 or choosing careers in these fields. Our learners, their parents and their teachers view science apprehensively and see it as a frightening subject, a fact that is also revealed in low achievements of our learners in international science bench marking tests such as TIMMS,” Potgieter reckons.
In science education, we still ask ourselves some important questions about the relevance of science, for instance: “How does school science relate to Indigenous Knowledge (IK)?”; “What parts of IK should be included in the curriculum?”; “How can we teach such opposing world views in parallel?”; “How and where can overburdened educators find information to include IK in their science teaching practises?”; How can we move away from the current practise of only including limited examples of IK in the science curriculum to where it is really integrated and respecting, thus complementing each other’s’ values?” she asks.
“The answer might be in trying to find the similarities in so-called “Western Science” and IK. We can find these similarities in organising principles, habits of mind, skills and procedures, as well as knowledge structures. For example, there are many connections in the ways these two world views see properties of objects, position and motion of object, cycles, connections and changes in earth systems, to name but a view. Both views propose that the universe is unified and that the body of knowledge is stable, but subject to modification. Other similarities exist in the ways that patterns are recognised, verification of facts through repetition, empirical observations in natural settings. Science curriculums should thus adapt to include problem solving, where it conveys information that let the user employ it to solve problems for themselves and their communities. Learners should be grounded in the needs of their country and its aspirations,” Potgieter adds.
“If one includes this broader viewpoint, that is including IK into the current science curriculum, there might be significant advantages for all learners. At the end of learners’ school education, they would then have a rich and relevant education, viewing science from a perspective of diverse cultural and ethnic groups. Drawing on IK could lead to solving long standing practical problems. Moreover, it might be a way for our diverse communities to find common ground and generate discussions about diverse problems,” Potgieter concludes.
Story: Barry Viljoen