The police in Polokwane confirmed that no cases of kidnapping have been reported in the city over the past three years.
In recent weeks, social media has been abuzz with videos and messages of people claiming that they either witnessed, or were involved in attempted kidnappings.
Provincial Police Spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo says no such cases have been reported at either the Westenburg and Polokwane Police Station.
“One cannot say they have been victim to kidnapping and not report it to the police. Most of these people spreading the message about kidnappings in Polokwane say they want to do it in order to increase awareness but all they are doing is to cause panic. If someone wants to raise awareness, the best thing for them to do is to open a case so that it can be recorded and preventative measures can be put in place.”
According to Mojapelo, one can be charged with perjury for reporting on false information.
“Legally, you can be charged for spreading false information and causing panic, even if it is on social media.”
Mojapelo recalls one incident where a Nigerian man was parked illegally in the CBD area and traffic officials were called and realised the car was not roadworthy and they impounded it. He says videos of this incident were taken by residents who then shared it on social media saying a Nigerian man has just been arrested for kidnapping.
“It is incidents like these that are blown out of proportion that cause confusion in the community. We preach safety but not because there is a kidnapping syndicate. As the police we will always urge residents to be vigilant and avoid secluded dark areas.”
Mojapelo says since May there have only been five missing person’s cases reported at the Polokwane Police Station and all of these have been found. He once again urged the community to not cause panic.
Review approached the management of Mall of the North and Savannah Mall for comment.
Sumari de Ridder, General Manager at Mall of the North confirmed that no kidnapping incidents have been reported to them.
“The mall has a highly maintained and monitored camera and video footage system and a well-trained, experienced security force. Notwithstanding this, it is essential that customers are made aware of these activities and always be vigilant when it comes to their own and their loved ones safety.”
Mall of the North security officers are placed strategically throughout the mall and customers are encouraged to approach them at any time you notice suspicious activities or feel threatened in any way.
Management at Savannah Mall says no incidents were reported to mall management.
“There were rumours, but our follow-up investigation found there were no actual incidents of kidnapping.
Our camera system was upgraded and our custodian team was increased especially during the day shift. We are in close communication with the SAPS who have been extremely helpful, present and responsive,” Operations Manager confirmed
They encourage shoppers to please report any incident immediately or as soon as possible to centre management.
“Should this not be possible, we are also in close communication with our tenants.
Please report your situation to the relevant or closest tenant who will be able to assist in notifying the correct persons. Without an incident being reported no action can be taken,” she said.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe