Five additional accused of the Morena Seaka View Home Owners Association appeared before the magistrate on 14 October.
They are part of a group having claimed the farm Kalkfontein 100, section 41 along the R71 road between Polokwane and Mankweng. The five presented themselves at the Polokwane Police Station for charges relating to fraud.
This followed the arrest on 4 August of six suspects aged between 43 and 59 for illegally selling stands at the farm near Dalmada.
Blue Dot, a local property developer and owner of the land, reported a case of fraud to the police after alleging that there were people selling stands for amounts ranging between R2 500 to R120 000. The suspects have in the process allegedly impersonated members from a well-known clan owning land in this area.
Blue Dot Properties and the land claimants of section 41 have had many violent altercations during the last couple of months. The land claim has not been resolved after more than 20 years, and is yet to be finalised by the Land Claims Court.
The Morena Seaka View Home Owner’s Association claim to comprise the people from the Mojapelo clan and that their ancestors have been buried on the land. They also claim to be in possession of a court interdict which still stands, that there may not be any development of the land. They also maintain that they have never sold any land or plots, but only the right to occupy. “The Mojapelos are not foolish to sell land not in their possession,” their representative said.
Provincial Police Commissioner Lt Genl Nneke Ledwaba said: “This area and the adjacent places east of Polokwane are known for violent activities where people open charges and counter charges, fighting over the land.” The five accused were released on R1 000 bail each. They are Mantsho Wilie Mojapelo (49); Ngaletsang Esther Mojapelo (39); Marakalase Kwena Humphrey Hlaka (36); Mabel Mojapelo (46) and Mamatjatji Mary Rankweteke (39). This brings to 11 the total number of all the accused in this fraud matter. They will all appear in court on 13 November.
Story: Nelie Erasmus