The Department of Social Development has refuted any claims of expired food being distributed at the Capricorn District temporary shelter that was established at the Polokwane Showgrounds for the homeless during the Covid-19 lockdown.
In a story published by Polokwane Observer with the headline ‘Skills for the homeless’, some residents at the shelter alleged that they were served expired goods, mistreated and given empty promises.
The shelter was opened at the beginning of the lockdown after a call was made by the President, Cyril Ramaphosa to ensure that no one was on the street during lockdown. Since then, many of the homeless people have opted to leave the shelter but some remained in hopes of getting assistance to better their lives.
A man whose identity is withheld, alleges that he has had to withstand a concussion, being fed mouldy bread and empty promises of skills development, something the department has since refuted.
“When the shelter was first opened we were promised skills development by the department and Polokwane Mayor, Thembi Nkadimeng who addressed us but never came to see how we were doing. I collapsed and had to find a way to Rethabile Clinic because I was not offered any medical assistance.
“I received a prescription but had to wait until I got my R350 social relief grant in order to buy the medication.”
The man alleges he just wants help and wishes the mayor can come and address them so that she can put their minds at ease, even if it’s for her to tell them that they would not be assisted with any form of skills development.
Departmental Spokesperson, Witness Tiva emphasised that the role played by the department was to offer temporary shelter, which they managed to do.
“As a department we have done everything we could to assist. The homeless participated in skills development for recreational purposes, no formal qualifications were offered as academic programmes offered by institutions of higher learning were closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown.”
According to Tiva, no expired goods were served to the homeless, and medical assistance is always provided whenever there is a need.
The claimant also did not provide proof of his claims.
“As the department which has been tasked with a responsibility to care for the vulnerable in the society, there is no way we would give expired food to people,” Tiva reassured the public.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe