Just more than a year ago Volkswagen fanatics could not wait to get their hands on the T-Cross, and now the excitement is even higher with the introduction of its big brother, T-Roc.
The T-Roc is impressive right from the start and stands out from the crowd. It is a vehicle that is as confident as its owner, challenges the status quo, leads the pack and refuses to follow.
It is an SUV that has a drive to defy with unique bold design from interior to exterior, combined with all the advanced technology you need for pure, unrivaled performance. When it comes to design and lifestyle the T-Roc is bold with an immaculate design crafted into every detail – a way of the manufacturer to make sure it stands out from the crowd.

The all-new T-Roc refuses to be boxed in with its bold 1.4 and 2.0 Design or 2.0 R-line models. One can unleash your creativity with the T-Roc’s performance and driving experience.
The T-Roc captures ultimate driving enjoyment with next-level power, with a TSI petrol engine (or the optional 4MOTION), an excellent Tiptronic and dual-clutch DSG gearbox.

If you like to rule the road get ready to do just that and have the time of your life doing it. Two-tone and individualisation are also key features of the T-Roc. It was made to show the world who you are. Unleash your creativity and handpick your preferred exterior colour combination from a vast range of options.
The newby to the market is also packed with innovative technology. With the T-Roc’s effortless tech integration features, it’s never been easier to integrate your worlds. Enjoy all the tools needed to swiftly and simply find your way, access all the vehicle information you need, all while singing along to your killer beats® sound system.
The interior of the T-Roc is the epitome of contemporary design and individuality. Slick, modern and elegant, the T-Roc embraces the future, combining unique style withVolkswagen’s characteristic build quality.
Personalise your T-Roc with a choice of three coloured inserts and upholstery to match, available in Ravenna Blue and Curcuma Yellow. The R-Line model features colour-coded front and rear bumpers in “R” styling. R-Line logo on radiator grille and on the side panels complimented with a ventilation grille in sporty black grained design.
The entire look is perfected with dark red LED rear lights and 19 inch Suzuka alloy wheels in dark graphite with a burnished finish. The TSI petrol engine options for the new T-Roc pack a punch, bringing forth next-level power and efficiency.

Whether you chose the Design 1.4 TSI 110kW Tiptronic or the R-Line 2.0 TSI 140kW 4MOTION DSG, complete with excellent Tiptronic and dual-clutch DSG® gearbox and powerful engines, the T-Roc is ready to take on the world.
The T-Roc will be available at the dealership from the third week of November. For more information visit Volkswagen Polokwane on the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or contact the sale team at (015) 299 8800.