Streetlights which have reportedly been out of order for three years and have been reported to the municipality, have according to some residents led to an increase in crime in certain areas.
Patrick Tshia, a resident of Ivy Park said that last week, three crime incidents in the area were reported to the police.
“Streetlights in the area of Laerskool Ivy Park and surrounds are nearly non-existent. Only here and there you might find one or two lights working. We pay our rates and taxes, which should result in our streetlights being maintained by the municipality, but they do not repair the defunct lights. In some areas for the past three years there were no lights working. Coming from the Northern Muslim School towards Ivy Park no lights are working, and it is extremely dangerous at night and creating an ideal environment for crime,” Tshai said. “The most recent break-in reported was last Thursday. Criminals also break into cars, because there are no street lights.”
He said the issue was repeatedly reported to the municipality, and also by their ward councillor, with nothing being done to repair the lights.
He also complained about rubble in a complex where approximately 54 houses were built, and that even though building continues, the rubble was not removed by the developer.
“This is an ideal place for criminals to hide in the darkness,” he said.
On a WhatsApp group – Fed-up Polokwane, various complaints about streetlights are reported:
In Suid Street a resident reported that lights have been dysfunctional for more than a year, as the municipality apparently had no lights to install there. This is deemed to be posing a danger to many people running or walking in the evening. In Pietersburg Street streetlights have been reported, but nothing was done. From Webster to Dorp Street, 22 new street lights are not working, and in Grobler Street in Sterpark lights have not been working for more than a year, while in Betz Street, streetlights have not been working since March.
Some homeowners have offered to buy and install lights or globes themselves, but this is not allowed.
Matshidiso Mothapo, Municipal Spokesperson, said the municipality is experiencing a problem in the Ivy Park area due to vandalism and especially cable theft.
“When the cables are replaced, it is soon stolen again.
It is a serious challenge in this area and also affects household supply.”
He further said the municipality continue to repair stolen cables, but asked residents to report vandalism and tampering with, as well as theft of daylight switches.
“More than 50% of the problems encountered with streetlights are due to vandalism and tampering with switches. This also result in lights burning during the day instead of during night time.”
He said sometimes rain could also result in daylight switches being defective.
He admitted that there was a backlog due to a rotational work schedule during the lockdown, but confirmed that progress is being made.
The electrical services department has arranged with ward councillors to report defective street lights, but if there is only one light not working, it is not cost effective to go out and repair the light, but should there be a line not working, this will receive attention more speedily. “Our guys try to respond as quickly as possible to repair street lights.”
He called upon residents to report vandalism, as money spent on repairs and maintenance due to vandalism could be used towards new infrastructure.
Story: Nelie Erasmus