True to their slogan Vorspurng Durch Technik which means being ahead through technology, the Audi Q3 and A4 are class-leading vehicles with a twist.
Audi Q3 is a real eye-catcher
The new Audi Q3 Sportback combines the aesthetics and personality of a coupé with the power and functionality of an SUV while its design will definitely make you stand out from the crowd.
It has a progressive design which relates to self-confidence, an extrovert and sportiness. The front is dominated by the large single-frame grill with octagon design and the lateral air intakes.
The coupé-like silhouette is clearly visible from the side view. The long, elegant shoulder line forms the dynamic basic shape of the vehicle and emphasises the sportiness.

Characteristics of the rear are the flowing sloping roof line, the low rear window, and the sharply cut rear lights.
Available as standard in S line trim, the Audi Q3 Sportback will be delivered with bumpers in contrasting paintwork, 18-inch wheels in 5 V spoke design, and illuminated door sills with front aluminium inserts and S lettering. The interior features the latest infotainment generation directly from the luxury class.
The standard equipment includes a 10.25 inch digital instrument cluster. You can also opt for the Audi virtual cockpit plus.

The 12.3-inch HD display shows razor-sharp animations and provides you with relevant vehicle information. You control the optional MMI Navigation plus with MMI touch via a 10.1-inch display in the centre console.
Thanks to the standard Audi Smartphone Interface, you can also connect your mobile device to the vehicle. Driving pleasure comes standard in the Q3 Sportback. In order to offer you the greatest possible driving pleasure, Audi has equipped the Audi Q3 Sportback as standard with some technologies that increase the dynamics on the road.
The sports suspension provides good traction and progressive steering offers direct steering response. The Audi drive select driving dynamics system allows you to influence the vehicle characteristics using six different modes.
In addition to the engine and transmission set-up, the system influences the electronically adjustable shock absorbs and steering assistance.
The Q3 Sportback is powered by various engines: 35 TFSI (110kW), 40 TFSI quattro (140kW), 45 TFSI quattro (169 kW), 35 TDI (diesel 110kW) and a 35 TDI quattro (diesel 110kW).
The Q3 is available for viewing at our showroom at 48 Langenhoven street, Motorcity, Polokwane or contact us on 015 590 8800.
New Audi A4 – dynamic, powerful while attractive
Thanks to a new language of design and an almost completely new body, the sporty character of the Audi A4 Sedan comes into play more than ever: it appears dynamic and powerful while attractive and aesthetic at the same time.
A high-quality and functionally designed interior, innovative technologies in the fields of connected services, digitisation, infotainment and driver assistance systems, and powerful engines round off the overall package.

The exterior design speaks of sportiness, emotions and prestige. At the rear a continuous chrome strip connects the LED lights to each other, highlighting the horizontal design. The stepped diffuser surface with the integrated trapezoidal end pipes creates a sporting finish.
In the side view, the sporty line of the Audi A4 continues with wide fenders and distinctive side sills. At the front, the deep and wide single-frame grille, the bumper and the accented wide air intakes form a powerful unit. It is nothing new for Audi to come with a generous and high quality interior.
It is spacious with an arrangement of the elements which is designed to maximise brightness and space. A large storage compartment in the centre console offers practical storage space while it is packed with all kinds of technical features.

Audi has always been known for its high performance. Under the hood of the new A4 buyers will have the option of two petrol variants and one diesel variant. The petrol-powered 2.0 TFSI is available with either 110 kW or 140 kW, while the diesel-powered 2.0 TDI produces 110 kW. The petrol engine variants feature a 12 volt mild hybrid system with a belt-starter generator and a Li-ion battery. This technology allows, for example, for a shutdown of the engine while driving under certain conditions – thereby reducing fuel consumption.
The A4 is available for viewing at our showroom at 48 Langenhoven street, Motorcity, Polokwane or contact us on 015 590 8800.