The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Limpopo Tourism Agency (LTA), Nomasonto Ndluvo has resigned.
Ndlovu joined LTA in 2017 and signed a three-year deal with the agency which comes to an end on 17 November.
Chairperson of LTA board, Andrew Dipela confirmed Ndlovu’s resignation and further stated that the acting CEO will be announced at the board meeting scheduled for this week.
Ndlovu joined LTA from Standard Bank where she served as the head of Brand Marketing, Sponsorship and Events.
She was also a global manager for business tourism at South African Tourism where, for three years, she was responsible for marketing South Africa as a premier business tourism destination worldwide.
She led and contributed to growing Meetings Africa, a marketing platform to showcase South Africa as a business tourism destination. She also led the establishment of South African National Convention Bureau.
She previously held the position of Strategic Executive Director, Communications, Marketing and Events Department at the City of Tshwane, where she was responsible for the repositioning of the city to reclaim its glory as a capital city of South Africa.
Ndlovu was quoted in a media statement saying: “When I took on the role of Chief Executive Officer at Limpopo Tourism Agency in November 2017, I shared with you my vision on how we, all stakeholders, would carry the Limpopo tourism profile into the future. There were two things that I committed to focusing on – moving our tourism from good to great and making people, especially those from outside Limpopo, fall in love with the province.”
“With your support, encouragement and counsel, I can safely say we managed to move the needle, and achieved quite a lot, but there is always room for improvement. It was not easy, there were many challenges especially over the past seven months with Covid-19 affecting all of us, but through it all I was buoyed by your unwavering support. For this I am eternally grateful to each and every one of you.
After an exciting and exhilarating journey, my three-year contract comes to an end mid-November 2020. However, for personal and family reasons I have decided to resign and leave at the end of October.”
“I thank each one of you for the support you have given me and the team over the past three years.
I hope you will continue working, in partnership, with LTA in taking tourism in Limpopo to even greater heights.
“This is by no means a goodbye but until we meet again as I feel I am now part of the bigger Limpopo tourism family and will always be available to support the industry at large, but most importantly I will be visiting as a tourist.
“As the industry recovers slowly from the Covid-19 pandemic, I want to wish you all the best. I will miss you dearly,” she concluded.
Story: Herbert Rachuene