The Deputy Minister of Transport, Dikeledi Magadzi has warned taxi operators not to abuse their privileges on the roads.
Speaking at the closing ceremony of the Provincial Taxi Lekgotla in Polokwane on Tuesday, Magadzi said most taxi operators and drivers tend to block roads and off-load commuters anywhere on the road and that this is a problem to motorists and commuters alike.
“They must stop thinking they are the masters of the road. They have this tendency of stopping in the middle of the road and it is not fair to commuters. The road belongs to everybody, let’s share it,” Magadzi said.
The former MEC of Agriculture and Education in Limpopo also urged taxi operators to refrain from harassing and abusing women at the taxi ranks.
“Women have the right to wear whatever they choose. We are building a society, a society free of sexism and violence against women and wish that the industry can join actions against gender-based violence and femicide. It is the view of women, government and large parts of society that gender-based violence arises not only out of historical and cultural factors, but that it is also the result of the economic exclusion of women. It is our view that the economic exclusion of women has in many ways led to dependence of women on men and inversely with men believing they own women and can treat them with as much disrespect and violence.”
She also added they wish to see more women participating in the transport sector and leveraging and maximising on some of the opportunities available in the sector. “We want women to own and operate the taxis. The industry must enjoy the benefits of being a R40 billion industry.
“We need more women owning and operating the taxis and this will help to curb the scourge of gender-based violence. Equally so, the department has also realised that the transport sector remains an important vehicle for the empowerment of women as much as an important conduit for the overall advancement of black people.
To that extent, we have prioritised to ensure that women find the opportunity to empower themselves in the industry. It is however only with the full support of the industry and the commitment and will of its captains that we shall succeed in our fight against this pandemic.”
Story: Herbert Rachuene