“We are taking back our safety and we will occupy all spaces to ensure that there is no place for crime – first in our city and then in our province.”
These were the overwhelming sentiments on Friday, 25 September, when women of all races, cultures, social status and religions gathered at the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court where the four suspects in the Deacon murder case appeared.
The women were protesting under the banner of a women’s movement that aims to take back safety by being actively involved in community safety.
The movement’s spokesperson, Thabiso Mampuru, said it is high time that practical measures were put in place to increase safety in the community.
“We are tired of protesting which does not lead to real change where laws are made. Therefore, we have decided to get involved in the projects and programmes relating to law enforcement officials. We not longer want to be victims, but want to take responsibility for our city. We will be working hand in hand with law enforcement to ensure that we take back our safety.”
Mampuru said the time for protesting simply for people to forget about the issue at hand a week later, is far gone: “The brutal murders of Lizette and Hettie was the final straw”.
The bodies of the two Deacon women were found on the evening of 10 September after being reported missing earlier that day.
Swift action by law enforcement and a private detective services has seen four suspects arrested.
Mampuru was adamant that the suspects should not be granted bail when they apply next week.
“We are tired of seeing the people who kill out on the streets a few years later. If you take someone’s life, you should not be allowed to live your life as if nothing happened. The only way people will stop killing is if an example is set. The law is too lenient and if stricter punishments are introduced, this would lead to a lower crime rate.”
According to Mampuru, the movement is in the process of engaging law enforcement and proper plans will be detailed soon.
“We will also continue to support the Deacon family in their time of need,” she concluded.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe