Despite the harder lockdown levels being a thing of the past, finding a job still remains difficult for many local job seekers.
While many people have lost their jobs as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and recruitment agencies are overwhelmed with job seekers, the availability of vacancies is a problem.
“Many companies have closed,” Sheryl-Anne van der Merwe, office head at Boss Recruitment told Polokwane Observer.
“We receive a lot more applications, but there are fewer vacancies available, and it is really difficult to find jobs following the pandemic. The only sector where we find there are some vacancies are in marketing, as businesses are trying to pick up again.”
Tinyiko Mapetho at Kgadi Staffing Solutions agreed.
“We have a lot more job seekers, but there is a shortage of jobs in most sectors. We as agents struggle to scout any available jobs, whether it is blue or white collar jobs, and do not receive vacancies from companies either. At one stage during the lockdown, recruiters in the medical field were looking to recruit staff, but that is about the only vacancies that were sought-after.”
At Grey’s Personnel, Carlene van Vuuren said they too experienced a surge in job seekers.
“Vacancies are very slowly picking up, but we surely cannot assist all job seekers to find employment. Jobs becoming available are in the area of sales, marketing, administrative and cashiers, but businesses have been hit hard by the pandemic. General workers, especially, struggle to find jobs, as do professional people.”
Earlier this year, Bernice Grey, owner of Grey’s Personnel, said the agency was inundated with CVs of people looking for jobs.
“There is a huge increase in well-qualified people, experienced artisans and people with excellent job experience looking for jobs. We are receiving queries from people from all over the country, especially locally and from Gauteng.”
Earlier this year the first Quarterly Unemployment Statistics report of StatsSA for 2020 reported a further 13 000 jobs were lost in Limpopo from the last quarter of 2019 (October to December) to the end of the first quarter (January to March 2020), with the year-on-year trend in the province for the last quarters of 2018 and 2019 showing a 5,2% increase in unemployment in the province.
The 2019 fourth quarter increase in unemployment in the province, from the third quarter to the 4th, was 6,6%, the largest increase in unemployment in the country.
The official unemployment rate in the province stood at 23,6% at the end of March 2020, while in the same period in 2019 the rate was 18,5%. The expanded unemployment rate stood at 44,4%, while the labour force participation rate stood at 47,6 %, the lowest in the country.
This trend is continuing, with growing unemployment statistics, as per the newest StatsSA report that was released last week.
Story: Nelie Erasmus