Five men who were arrested in connection with a double murder in the Magna Via industrial area in the city two weeks ago, appeared in the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Among them is the husband of one of the two victims.
Buthelezi Mbekezi Ndondo (25), Zulu John Richard (30), Phigose Bhekinlenzo Sfiso (34), Stanley Thabo Leshabane (57) and Dlamini Emanuel Tembtiani (30) appeared on two counts of murder and two counts of conspiracy to commit murder after Makoena Leshabane (46) and Tebogo Mphuti (35) were shot in cold blood on 10 October.
Preliminary police investigations at the time revealed that the two women were with a local property agent, viewing various business premises with the intention to rent when they were gunned down.
The men were apprehended on Friday, 23 October in Ekhuruleni, Elsburg, Katlegong and Germiston areas respectively.
According to police, the husband of one of the women was hospitalised after he reportedly attempted to take his own life.
He was arrested in hospital.
Friends and families of the deceased gathered at the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court with the Women Taking Back Safety Movement to honour the lives that were lost.
Pastor Malesela Raphahle from the Anglican Church, Matlala Parish spoke of how the assistance of the community has been great and he urged residents to continue to support the family in this time of need.
Makoena’s uncle, Mmakgabo Ramatshela said the family is comforted by the support they have been given, also from a group of friends and family that had gathered in Midrand where the two women resided.
“We are confident in the justice system. Our job is to now continue praying and giving them the support for a successful conviction.”
Betty Kgare, on behalf of the ANCWL in the Peter Mokaba region says they will continue to offer support to the family and that the league has been involved in the reviewing of legislation on domestic violence and violations against women and children.
“We are fighting to ensure that those arrested on charges against women and children are offered no bail as they present a danger to the society.”
During the gathering, friends of the two women released red and white balloons into the air as a symbol of the two lives that had been lost.
Story: Umpha Manenzhe